 Learning how to automate stuff in Python is a great skill to have is something that I started doing when I was learning and something I still do today
 Even though I have access to modern APIs etc. So if your job revolves you around using a browser based system
 Then we can absolutely automate good parts of it using playwright. So playwright is browser automation in Python
 And we're gonna be leaning heavily on its code gen feature which is gonna do the majority of the heavy lifting for us
 I'll show you what I mean. So I've got VS code open here
 And I have a new folder
 So what you want to do is you need to install playwright like this pip install playwright
 I've obviously already got it installed the next thing you want to do is do playwright install and type
 Chromium so we only want to install the Chrome browser because that's what we're gonna be using if you install the other ones
 They'll just be there for until you delete them no need now we want to do playwright
 Code gen like this this is gonna open up a couple of extra windows
 And I'm gonna move these over to my other screen just so we can go through them
 So what they do is the one on the left is the current code and the one on the right is the browser
 So as we make changes to the browser page is going to record the
 Appropriate action in the actual code itself. I'm gonna paste in a URL here
 And we'll see we now have this page go to the next thing you want to do is
 Fill in any login details that you need now this is already filled in here
 So I'm just gonna just leave that at the moment and hit login
 But ideally you want to click on that
 So what we're gonna do is we're going to I'll just move this over a little bit so it's a bit easier to see
 What we're gonna do is we're gonna go create a new discount in this e-com system
 So I'm gonna click promotions then discount notice how the things are changing on the left hand side
 Now I'm gonna go to add new
 There's another click bit.click
 So let's give it a name by clicking in the name box and we'll just call this 50 off
 discount assigned to total order
 Click the use percentage and then we're gonna put 50 in here
 Now we want to add a coupon code. So let's just do 50 offers the coupon code
 And we're gonna do a start date and an end date now
 I'm gonna do this by clicking on this to see if this works, but you could of course type into the box here
 The date and times that you need now. I'm gonna hit save
 And done, that's it. Okay, so now let's go ahead and stop recording
 Let's copy all of this and
 Paste it into our code here and then close out these two browsers here
 So now we have the basis of what we need to do to basically automate that large part of our job
 We've gone ahead and we've logged in we can see that happening here
 I only clicked on the email and password remember because that was already in there
 So if you need to add some text in here click on it and then type the appropriate text in and you can see we're clicking on all these buttons
 Now we are gonna need to tidy this up a bit because it will probably fail at some point
 So what we're gonna do is we're gonna click run
 And then we'll see where it fails see where it stops and make the appropriate changes
 Okay, so let's run that and see what happens. Okay, so it's opening on the page
 login in fine
 go to promotions
 Okay, so we've hit our first sticking point. So let's close that out and it failed under the promotion. So where was going to promotions?
 So let's add in page dot
 wait for load state. This is the favorite one they like to use and it is
 Network
 Idol like this. So let's try that again
 Okay, so that works creating a new one. This is works and as I expected so it's failed on the
 Date input thing here that has on work. So we need another solution for that
 So let's quickly let's have a look at the selector for this
 Okay, you can see it failed on this parent settings div. Okay, so let's just try commenting this out for the moment and see if we get anywhere
 Okay, that seemed to work. So what we're going to do now is I'm going to import in
 Time and at the best before we close everything off. I'm going to put in time
 Sleep and we'll say five seconds for now
 But what you can do is you can actually change these bits of information
 So I'm going to change this to 25 off and I'm going to change the name
 To 25 off as well. So let's run it again and this time the sleep at the end
 Just gonna give us a chance to see that it actually did it. Otherwise we can just log in otherwise
 Again, there we go
 Before it closes we can see we have our 25 off. I actually left it as 50% off
 So that's that's probably something you'd want to avoid doing but now you can see how powerful this is
 That was only a few minutes using its code generator to whip through and create a script that actually
 creates something on the system now you have to be careful when you do this you have to make sure that
 What you're doing is
 Repeated because the browser is just running through the commands that you're giving it
 So if things change it will fail
 But for completely repeatable tasks where the same thing happens over and over again
 This is a great way to get it done
 If you've enjoyed this video, I think you're going to enjoy this one right here
 Which is more automation with Python but this time for grabbing data
 (upbeat music)
