Speaker A: I don't ask if it will go viral. I can figure out how to make it viral.
Speaker B: That is an absurd thing to say. That's Jenny Hoyos, an 18 year old youtuber who is absolutely crushing shorts. She's done over 600 million views in the past year alone, averaging 10 million views per video. How does she do it?
Speaker A: I have analyzed thousands of shorts. I've analyzed all of Mister B's shorts, all of Ryan Trehan's shorts, and what.
Speaker B: I found was in this episode, you'll learn how to make anything go viral.
Speaker A: I think you can make a video about anything. It's just adding and a how to.
Speaker B: Create the perfect short.
Speaker A: Every second counts on a short. Like, every single second. Whatever you say you're gonna do, you end it right after you do it.
Speaker B: The differences in short form content, platforms.
Speaker A: Short form content is not the same across platforms. I noticed that YouTube likes and a.
Speaker B: Hot take you might not be expecting.
Speaker A: Retention doesn't matter as much as people think it does.
Speaker B: You said, this kind of aside, you said, well, I can make anything go viral. Like, if the idea is good, I can make it go viral, which is an absurd thing to say, and I want to hear what that means to you. How do you make anything go viral?
Speaker A: It's just adding story and a twist, especially with shorts, since, like, no one's actually having to click on your video. I think you can make a video about anything. You can make video about paint drying, and you can make it entertaining if there's a story around it and if the viewer is invested.
Speaker B: What are your favorite ways to get people invested? How do you make a story that people care about?
Speaker A: I think my content is very personality based. I'd say so for me, making it personal makes them invested. I'll give you an example. I actually did this in a long form. In the video, I cooked for strangers to make money. Okay, very baseline. Why should they care? Well, my kitchen is broken, and I want to raise money for it by cooking and making money. You know, it's ironic. Like, I'm. My kitchen's broken, so in order to fix it, I have to cook to make money. So I think that's what makes people invested. Having, like, some sort of personal why or goal. And irony, too, is pretty funny.
Speaker B: I like that. I like that irony juxtaposition. Jenny's the hero of the story.
Speaker A: Exactly.
Speaker B: What makes a good short?
Speaker A: When I think of good, it's very subjective, so there's no direct definition as to what makes a good short, because everyone has different tastes but I can say what makes a good short to me.
Speaker B: Okay, let's hear that.
Speaker A: To me, a good short is one that has a strong hook. The way I like to explain it is if it could be used as a title and thumbnail on a long form and, like, it will still get clicks, then it'll work for a short, you know, so the hook needs to be very visual. You need to understand it without even listening to it. And it needs to be so simple, like, so simply said, like you said, explain to a five year old. So I think that's one of the key things. And then also just a story that just, you know, pushes you through. And not only do you watch to the end, but you rewatch it again. So that's what makes a good short to me.
Speaker B: Let's say that you are planning or want to create a new video. How do you start thinking about hooks or how do you generate hooks?
Speaker A: It's very funny because I like to, I like to see shorts like, as, like, even though I don't do that many long forms, I like to see shorts as if I'm making, like, a long form. So, like, I will sketch, like, almost as if it's title and thumbnails. So, like, I have my iPad and I draw. Like, what would I visually want it to look like? What are different ways? If I was to put it together? What would that look like? So when I'm making a hook, I just, like, keep drawing and sketching or, like, even just imagining until something just clicks. So the first thing is the visual.
Speaker B: Easily.
Speaker A: The first thing is the visual. And then I figure out how I'm going to accompany that visual and what I'm saying. I try to make it as concise as possible, and then I'll put it in a readability checker and then make sure that it's actually, like, understandable to at least, like, fifth grade or under.
Speaker B: What's, what's the readability checker that you use?
Speaker A: I don't, I don't know. I don't pay for it. It's. Readabilityformulas.com is the one I use.
Speaker B: And you want to be fifth grade or under?
Speaker A: Fifth grade or under, yeah.
Speaker B: Have you, have you played around with things that are older, quote unquote than that and seen that that's the level that it should be at, or how did you arrive at fifth grade? Yeah.
Speaker A: So I have analyzed thousands of shorts, as you may know. So I've, like, scraped, you know, the scripts of a bunch of shorts, and I've put it in this readability checker. And I've noticed that the most popular shorts, especially mrBeast, you know, MrBeast is one of the best shorts creators and his is like in first grade level. So I just basically, like, after scraping everything, that's when I realized like fifth grade and under is like about the range you want to be at. Yeah, I think, yeah, this is simply foot. Yeah.
Speaker B: How did you land on fifth grade? Was that the average of all of these?
Speaker A: I'm not going to lie. The readability can sometimes be off, but it was, it was just like at a range because I believe like Erac, for example, is like slightly higher. I don't know the exact number on the top of my head, but I just noticed that like a good in between is fifth grade. But I will say the problem with the readability is especially like with content like mine, you can change the readability from fifth grade to like 8th grade by simply using the word business, which is why I try to avoid things like that. Or if you use the word finance, or if you use like for example, profit, instead of saying profit, I just explain the definition of profit every time I talk about it.
Speaker B: I did not know this about you. I did not know that you analyzed thousands of shorts by scraping the titles and the transcripts. Can you tell me more about that?
Speaker A: Yeah, so it's so funny because basically the way I do it is, you know, when you go onto YouTube and you open up a short, it sends you like, even on desktop, it sends you to like this shorts page or whatever. Yeah, but if you change the URL to like watch v equals then the URL, then it will send you to like the actual YouTube page. And then you can just click transcript copy and paste that transcript. And then I just check the readability. But I also, like check other things. You know, I just analyze why these shorts are working.
Speaker B: So interesting. So interesting. I would love to hear anything else that comes to mind as you were looking at all this that started to help you pull together your own short strategy because I did not realize that you'd done all this research and pulled all this together. This gets me very, very excited. As the creator science guy, I am super excited about this research.
Speaker A: Yeah. So I've also deeply analyzed all of my videos and I think that's where you learn the most. Everyone has different audiences. So what works for MrBeast might not work for me. Right. So what I did was like, I did my own little experiment. Like when I knew I wanted to get into shorts, I told myself I was going to upload every day for as long as possible, and I think I only got, like a week or two in. It didn't. I didn't. I didn't get that far. But the goal was essentially to upload as much as possible. Quantity is what makes quality. When I was doing that quantity, I would analyze my retention graph, and this is just, like, one example I'll just pull out for you. So there was one video. After five days, I got. I think it was like 50,000 views in five days, right? Which I, on average, I usually get, like a million. So I was not happy with the performance, and I pulled up the retention graph, and I noticed on the last second it was a huge dip. It was 70%. 1 second later, it was 45%. Like a 25% drop in 1 second, and the retention was 83%. So what I did was, I went to YouTube studio. I trimmed off that 1 second. YouTube removed this feature, by the way. YouTube, please bring it back. But just by removing that 1 second at the end, it went from 83% to 88%, and the video went flying. And that's why every second counts on a short, every single second. Because when you think about it, let's say you have a 32nd short. If you lose 1 second, that's already 97%. That's three percentages. You know, if you have lose 2 seconds, that's 6%. So when you think about it, I'm sure it's like you're not just losing 1 second, you're losing double or even triple, because that 1 second accumulates to two or 3% of the video.
Speaker B: The takeaway here, I believe, is that you really want, in a short, high retention. Of course we want high retention and everything, but I've heard some people talk about you really want people to sometimes loop and watch even into a repeat of the thing. Is that true?
Speaker A: Yes. Yes. And I'll explain why. The average scroll through rate, which is basically like, on YouTube shorts, you can see what percentage who, like, what percentage of people viewed versus swiped away, and I like to call it scroll through rate. But the average scroll through rate is like 70%. You want to get that as high as possible. My personal scroll through rate is, like 85%. So my average scroll through rate is 85%, but my average retention is 95%. If only 85% of people are watching it, how does the retention subtly get to 95%? It's because they're re watching it. So to have that, like, 90 plus percent retention, which is like, in my opinion, the bare minimum, like, for a short to blow up, you need them to watch it again.
Speaker B: So 90% is your benchmark. That's what you're looking for for retention, for something that will have the virality and reach that you're accustomed to at this point?
Speaker A: For the most part, yes. I will say it depends on the amount of impressions, because my videos average, like, 95% retention. But we're talking, like, that's on 10 million views. So that's, like, it's very difficult to do.
Speaker B: Right?
Speaker A: So. Yeah.
Speaker B: Okay. So you mentioned that with the hooks, you think about the visual nature of it. Are you talking about the first frame of the actual video?
Speaker A: Yes, I'm talking about the first frame. I don't know how many shorts you've seen, so I'll try and, uh, explain.
Speaker B: It, but I've seen more than one but less than you. So let's. Let's assume on the low end.
Speaker A: Yeah. So I have this series where I remake fast food items for a dollar. Instead of, like, showing my face, I show the location. I show the front of the location, because, obviously, like, more people know the fast food location than they know me. The easiest way to describe, like, the video just visually is by showing the fast food item in front of the location. So, usually it's so funny, I would have the logo in the middle, and then I'll put the food item here, and then right in the middle, I'll put, like, $1 burrito, $1 sandwich, $1 burger. So then it's like, you perfectly see it. It's always perfectly aligned. And it really helps for binge ability, too, because it's actually a playlist, and I get a lot of views from people, like, just, like, watching it down, and they just know it's me every time they see that framing.
Speaker B: So interesting. Was this all trial and error, or did you model this style of framing and hook off of anyone in particular?
Speaker A: It's definitely like trial and error. At first, I started by, I guess you can say stealing, like, stealing like an artist, because that's how, to me, I believe that's how you learn. Sure, you obviously want to find your own style, but I started by, like, copying other people's hooks, and then I was looking at, like, which percentage is the highest. So I. It sounds so funny. So, like, a. A strategy, a technique is like, what would it sound like if this youtuber made this video? And then I would make a bunch of hooks, depending on that. So I'll have, like, a list of, like, the big ten, and then I'll just like, you know, have a bunch of different hooks, pick which one's my favorite, see the percentage, and then assess what's the best hook. Then I made my own twist into it.
Speaker B: After a quick break, Jenny walks me through her process for coming up with great ideas. So stick around. We'll, we'll be right back. If you know me, you know how much I believe in memberships. My membership is the core of my business, and I believe that earning a living directly from your audience is one of the most sustainable ways for you to become a professional creator as well. So I want to tell you about today's sponsor, Uscreen. Uscreen is a beautiful all in one platform that helps content creators earn a living from their videos by unlocking predictable, recurring revenue. You can host private live streams for your members, build an on demand catalog of premium video content, and uscreen gives you a community hub to interact with your members too. They can access your community from their mobile phone, so your membership is right there in their pocket. With a uscreen account, you get video hosting, an out of the box website, full payment and subscription management, and plenty of third party integrations too. And uscreen makes it easy to get set up. You get access to powerful website themes that are fully brandable with no coding skills required. Uscreen is the platform for building a video membership site that is great for generating a sustainable income stream for professional creators. To try youscreen, click the link in the description and let them know that Jay sent you. What would you say is your proportion of like video ideas to videos you actually create?
Speaker A: Oh gosh. Well, I have like right now in a Google Doc, I have a list of 1000 ideas.
Speaker B: Crazy.
Speaker A: And I'm only doing ten. Crazy. It depends.
Speaker B: These are a thousand ideas, not a thousand hooks. A thousand different video ideas that could each have multiple different hooks within them.
Speaker A: Yes, it's crazy. Yeah.
Speaker B: Where do they come from? How do you generate that many ideas?
Speaker A: Okay, there's a lot of ways. So one way is I just watch YouTube and then see what I personally, you know, like want to recreate and like twist. Or it's like, what video do I want to watch? Or as funny as it sounds, I also use AI. AI has some pretty good ideas, but the best ideas, at least for me personally, they come from just living it and then thinking this is a video idea. So let me explain that. So one of my most popular videos is me making a garden. As funny as it sounds, because that sounds like it would get no views yet. It has like, it has like 30 million views.
Speaker B: That's a ton.
Speaker A: There's so many ideas where something like this happened. One day I was eating ratatouille because it's, like, one of my favorite foods, right? And I'm like, I can't believe, like, it costs $20 to cook. And I'm like, but can't I just make a garden and then have unlimited ratatouille for, like, $5? And I'm like, oh, my gosh, that's a video idea. So I'm like, now I gotta make a garden. And then I'm going to grow vegetables to have infinite ratatouille because it's my favorite food. So, like, that's where the story came from. Or, like, another time, my grandma, it was so funny. She got, like, I think it was like laundry detergent in the mail or whatever. Like, free laundry detergent. And I'm like, how'd you get free laundry detergent? That's like $30. And she was like, oh, I called the company and I complained to them. I told them that they suck, and they sent me free laundry detergent. And I'm like, that's a video. I gotta do that. So it's like, you know, just things that I live. And then I'm like, that needs to be a video. Those are my best ideas.
Speaker B: So how do you go from 1000 ideas to narrow it down to ten? What is the deciding factor of which videos make the cut?
Speaker A: So I would say I narrow it. I narrow it down to, like. Like, let's say we have 100, because 100 is, like, an easier number to work with. So let's say we have 100 ideas. I'll narrow it down to, like, 25, 25 to 50. That's usually just based on, like, the first thing I ask myself is, do I want to make it? I don't ask if it will go viral. I can figure out how to make it viral if I really want to make it. So first I tell myself, do I actually want to make this? Is this actually logistically possible? And then it's like, is the hook good? Is the mechanism good? Are people going to rewatch this? Then that's when I look at, like, where's the virality aspect in this? Then I'll bring it down to 25. Then from there, I'll send it to my video editor, who's also, like, he's just like, he's really involved in the channel. So he's not just a video editor. He's also, like, a strategist. Cause, you know, he's. He knows a lot about YouTube. And I'll send it to him and he'll bring my 25 to, like, ten, and he'll basically, he'll go in and tell me, like, even further if it actually seems viral, if he thinks it's shareable. But for him, like, he's really good at telling if. If a concept is simple yet complex, if that makes sense.
Speaker B: You mentioned in a word a second ago, you said, is the mechanism good? What do you mean by mechanism?
Speaker A: If they're going to be pushed to the end. So, like, a good example is mrBeast, the red circle? Like, is it, like, last to leave circle wins $500,000. The mechanism is the circle is constantly closing, so the viewers are watching till the end. So if it was just, like, the circle wasn't closing, I don't know if anyone watched to the end. They'll just skip to the end, probably.
Speaker B: Interesting. What are some of the mechanisms that you've used?
Speaker A: I think this is the easiest one that anyone can apply. It's basically saying there's three steps or there's three things we need to do because it's very easy to follow, and you just show the list of three. So now the viewer knows that, oh, we're getting closer to the video. Like, they actually have a good expectation, which is probably one of the biggest things. I think that's. I think that's why my videos go viral. It's because people have a good expectation of what they're going to watch and what's actually going to be at the end.
Speaker B: So when it comes to expectations, if you set expectations, do you find that then the next step is completely following through on those expectations? Or do you ever try to subvert expectations for an element of surprise or something?
Speaker A: I try to follow those expectations, but then have a twist. For example, I gave my mom a $5 Mother's day gift. The hook was, my mom's never had a mother's day gift, so I'm gonna change that and buy her the best present with $5. It was the why making them carry the hook. My mom's never had a mother's day gift, so I'm gonna change that. Then the expectation is. So I'm gonna surprise her with a gift for $5. And on screen, I'm showing me giving her the gift, but you're going to see that till the end. So it's like it's the cold open, and then we cut to the video. So the expectation is by the end of the video, you're going to see me give her a gift. So then I follow through, make the gift, and then I surprise her. Now, I gave them the expectation. I closed the loop that I'm going to surprise her with this gift. But the twist was she ended up dropping the gift. It broke. And then she was like, you're the best daughter I've ever had. I'm like, I'm your only one. Video ends, so it's like, yeah, I gave that expectation that I'm gonna gift her. And then we just twisted it at the end.
Speaker B: How long would you say, on average, your shorts are?
Speaker A: Oh, I know exactly the answer because I've done the analysis.
Speaker B: Okay, what's the answer?
Speaker A: It's exactly 34 seconds. Cause my most popular videos are exactly that length. So I try to make it exactly that length.
Speaker B: That was gonna be my next question. What's to say is that now your benchmark for what you're looking for in a video? 34 seconds.
Speaker A: Yes. So, yes, everyone's is different. Everyone got to analyze it, like, for their. Their own channel.
Speaker B: And I think I've seen. Well, I was in a. I was in Pat Galloway's accelerator, and he showed some research that he had done to show, like, depending on your short length, this is the bar for retention you should be shooting for. So I'm guessing that 90% retention is also related to the average total length of your videos, whereas if it's shorter, maybe you need retention to be higher to achieve the same virality.
Speaker A: Exactly, yes, correct. So, for me, for my personal channel, like I said, like, there's no specific number. I think everyone just has to check out their analytics. But for me, I noticed if a short is less than 30 seconds, it needs to. It has to have over 100% retention, or else it's not going to take off. So that's why I like to make it slightly longer. But too long is too long for my audience, since I do have a very young audience.
Speaker B: If you know that you want your videos to be about 34 seconds, I'm thinking if it's 34 seconds and you know that you want your last second retention to be really high, it seems like the payoff is, like, literally the last second. So now we got 34, 33 seconds to work with. You probably know how long your hook generally is. So maybe that's, you know, 3 seconds or 5 seconds, and you have this remainder of 28 to 30 seconds in the middle. Do you break that down into specific pieces of the mechanism, or is that just kind of whatever happens in the edit? Yeah.
Speaker A: So it's usually whatever happens in the edit, but what I do check is before I film the video, I will do a rough script, even if it's not even what happens in the video. Like, I'll just roughly, you know, do it and I can just change it later. And from there I'll have a sense of how long it is just from the word count. But I don't necessarily force it. I just let it free flow like you said in the edit. But I do have a rough idea of the word count and my hooks and foreshadow. I always do that in every video. I do a hook and then I foreshadow, which is two lines, and that is usually 3 seconds or less.
Speaker B: And foreshadow. You're saying that's in the voiceover? Because I know you mentioned the example of your mom's gift when you see her grab the package. That's foreshadowing in a way, but that's completely visual. You're saying you dedicate some spoken time to foreshadowing as well.
Speaker A: Yes, I always have spoken time to foreshadowing it. Like, it doesn't matter what video idea it is. Like. Like, let me just pull up like a random idea. Like I'm going to the beach, right? And then it's like, why would someone watch? So that's the hook. I'm going to the beach and what's the foreshadow? I'm going to the beach and I'm going to surprise someone with a end of the video. It could literally be with anything. It just needs to have some sort of expectation.
Speaker B: I want to keep going down this, the structure rabbit hole a little bit more because I keep finding new layers. Like, I didn't know foreshadowing is part of your structure. So is there anything that comes after the hook and foreshadowing that is a structural part of every video?
Speaker A: Yes, there actually is. So it will usually be hook, which is really short. Then I'll foreshadow what's going to be at the end. Then I have to smoothly transition. So I used to have, like, a lot of breaks because you want to give people time to breathe, right? Because you don't want to be like, I'm going to be doing this and this and this and this and this. The video's over. I didn't like. They're not going to understand anything. So you want a pacing break without the pacing actually breaking. Let me explain what I mean by that. This is, I did this in my recent video. So it was like McDonald's banned this item hook. So I'm going to make it at home, then convince them to put it back on the menu. That's the foreshadow. And then at first I wrote let's get started, but that breaks pace. So instead of saying, let's get started, I said, so I cooked illegally, and that just flows better. So I don't want to give, like, because I already gave, like, two crucial pieces of detail. So if I give any more detail, they're just going to forget about that. Like, primacy, recency, if you. I can get into that. So it's like they're going to forget what I just said. So we need a pacing break without the pacing actually breaking. That makes sense.
Speaker B: Yeah, totally. Okay, let's keep going down this. This trail. Is there. Is there more structural pieces past the transition?
Speaker A: Usually it's just like, problem solution or. But therefore storytelling.
Speaker B: Okay, tell me more about but therefore storytelling, basically.
Speaker A: But therefore. But therefore, storytelling, simply put, is just lots of change in the story. Sorries can't be stories without change. For example, I went on a walk, then it started raining. Then I went back home. It was much more boring than if it was like, I went on a walk, but it started raining. Therefore, I started running back home, and it was raining all over me. But good thing I had a handy umbrella while I was on my way back. Therefore, I got home. Like, it's the exact same story, but it just sounds so much more intriguing when you have, like. But therefore, I'm so glad that you're.
Speaker B: Able to, like, whip up these examples on the fly. This is must be very stressful, the spots I'm putting you on, but you're just like, I got it. So if I'm thinking from an order of operations standpoint, I'm making some assumptions. I'm realizing, and I want to make sure I'm correct in them. It sounds like you have ideas first. Then you narrow that down to a small number of ideas and ultimately a video that you say, yes. This idea, my editor and I have decided, is a good one. You come up with versions of the hook, and then it seems like you start recording, and after recording, you start editing. And then after editing comes the transcript for the voiceover. Did I get that right? You were close.
Speaker A: You were close. Like you said, ideas. Then I find that one idea. Then I'll write my hook, then I'll write the last line. So I always know the last line when I'm going to film. Then I'll go back, and then after the hook, I figure out how I'm going to foreshadow that I will always have the hook foreshadow. So I always have two lines. So it'd be like, hook foreshadow, and. But in between, it would be like, it depends on the video. Sometimes it will be a rough script, like we were saying, so I can have that structure in mind, or it will just be bullet points of things I want to touch on while I'm filming. Then I will film. Once I filmed, I will revisit the script again, revise it, finalize it. Then it goes and edit.
Speaker B: How do you write the last line without knowing what comes out in the filming?
Speaker A: You'd, like, leave it in blank. So it would be like, for example, if I'm surprising someone with a gift, the last line would be, it's so simple. Then I surprised my mom and then blank. So it's usually a reaction just to have a general idea.
Speaker B: Yes.
Speaker A: Yeah, exactly.
Speaker B: Yes. Okay. I was watching your videos this morning, and I was like, really? I took note of the fact that they all end very abruptly, but, like, not in a way where I'm like, what happened? It's like, it's pleasing, but it is abrupt. And we already talked about how you kind of learned this and you trimmed it off, but it is like. And I surprised my mom and, you know, and then. And then her reaction, and then end. You mentioned a moment ago that the age of your audience is typically a little bit younger. How much do you think about who the audience is when you think of ideas? You know, because in my world, to step back a second, in my world, a lot of times, folks have, like, a very specific avatar that they're creating for who's trying to achieve some sort of specific goal. I don't think that's the same in more of the entertainment space. So I'd love to hear to what level of detail you think about an audience member in your mind.
Speaker A: Yeah, that's everything. Avatar is everything. So for me, I will think of, like, specific people. So I will think of, like, me when I was younger, I'll think about, like, these are my favorites to think about, by the way. My. My nieces are ten years old. Ten. I have two nieces that are seven and ten, and they just moved to America last year, so they barely understand English. And that's. That's who I want to speak to. It's very tough because they might not be interested in the topic, but if I can make them interested, and especially if it makes sense to them as non english speakers, then it's probably really good. So that's the way I see it. It's not necessarily thinking of, like, their. Their dreams, their desires, but more. So how can you speak to them? I just. It just. I don't know if that makes sense. Cause it's, like, it's different.
Speaker B: It makes sense. It's interesting for me to hear because I just don't speak to folks on the more entertainment side of the creator world as often. So, actually, I'm just coming at it from natural curiosity to hear how you do think about it. I would imagine at the level of views you're getting, tens of millions on these. On these videos. It's a broad spectrum of people who are looking at this. So who do you choose as the core of. Yes. People outside of this type of person. Maybe it's my nieces will watch this, but I'm making it for this person in particular. I didn't know if you had that specificity or not. Mm.
Speaker A: Like I said, I do and I don't. So it's in the sense of, like, I. It's mainly, like, my younger self, which is, like, kind of weird because I can't actually. My younger self can't actually watch it. But that's, like, the way I think of it. If that makes sense.
Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. For sure. Can we talk a little bit about Instagram reels and TikTok and how you think about those? Because a lot of times people think, short form, vertical video, same everywhere. Choose wherever you're leading and then just post it to all three. And it's clear that your YouTube is. Is much bigger than the other two platforms, and those other two platforms are much bigger than mine. So that's not any judgment on you. But I'm curious what you're hearing or what you're experiencing in terms of how this does or does not translate. Hey, real quick, before they respond, I want to let you know that there are bonus audio only episodes of creator Science that air every Tuesday when we don't publish a video. Episodes like number 156, where I talk with my editor Connor about our first year on YouTube, or number 37 with Ali Abdall, if that's interesting. Just search for creator science wherever you listen to podcasts. All right, back to the show.
Speaker A: Yeah. So short form content is not the same across platforms. And I know this because I used to do very well on TikTok before I was doing well on YouTube. In fact, when I had, like, a thousand subscribers on YouTube, I had, like, 70k on TikTok. So I was doing much better. And I was averaging, like, a million views per TikTok. What was crazy is I remember at this point, I was posting to all three platforms, but TikTok was getting all the views. YouTube shorts and Instagram reels were getting, like, none of it.
Speaker B: Were you thinking about one of those platforms as, like, your lead platform? At that time, it was only TikTok. So you're thinking, I'm making this video for TikTok. I'm also posting to reels, and I'm also posting shorts.
Speaker A: Correct. But it wasn't edited on the TikTok app. Like, it would still be filmed, you know, like, professionally, and then edited it, and then posting on TikTok, the same video that would get 1 million views on TikTok would get 1000 views on YouTube shorts. And I was like, okay, let me switch a strategy. Cause I bought banned on TikTok. Like, for a short period of time, I'm like, let me focus on YouTube. And then the opposite happened. I started averaging 1 million views on YouTube and then a thousand on TikTok. I'm like, this is really strange. Like, these platforms definitely want different content. And what I found, YouTube likes definitely a slower, more mature. You know, it's a more mature audience. So they want, like, a slower pace, more story. So those would be, like, the 34 2nd tick, uh, 34 2nd shorts that I'm making right now. TikTok, on the other hand, did not like, did not like videos over 30 seconds. It liked ten to 22nd videos that were just, like, dense with information. Not that many jokes, just, like, you know, just. Just scrollable. They're just trying to scroll as much as possible. Whereas Instagram reels was also slightly more mature. But because they have that mute feature, a lot of those videos would be very visual and would have subtitles in every second and would have a lot of shareability. Since it's very easy to share on Instagram.
Speaker B: How do you think about long form now? Is it something that you aspire to do more of? How does it play into the Jenny Hoyos universe?
Speaker A: Yes, the Jenny Hoyos universe sounds like the MCU, but, yeah, I really want to get into long form. I want to become established there. Basically, what I did to shorts is exactly what I'm doing to long form. I've been studying long forms for the past year, learning as much as I can, analyzing everything, and now it's just time to execute. So the goal is to pull off what I did on shorts on long form and then just, you know, upload a. Upload a good amount between them. I'm never going to quit shorts. It's just going to be a good balance between the two.
Speaker B: What does long form represent to you? That it's a priority. You know, you're so good at shorts. You're. You're, like, at the top of the mountain there. Why is long form something that's calling to you?
Speaker A: You know, I think it's a lot of reasons. I feel it's kind of tough saying it, but I think that they, simply put, I don't see that much more growth for me in shorts. Like, sure, it can start averaging, like, 100 million views, but it's like the real growth and fun is going to come from learning long form. This is all about the journey, you know? It's like, it sounds so bad to say, but I feel like I've already achieved my goal for sure. Like, for shorts, you know, and it's like I wanna, you know, challenge myself again. I just don't feel like I'm challenging myself with shorts. This is a guess, in short.
Speaker B: Yeah, no, it's valid. Your reasons are your reasons. They're totally valid. I was wondering if it had anything to do with, like, is the relationship to the audience different in long form? I'm sure there's more money in long form, and I was wondering if those were part of the decision or if it was just a, you know, time to climb a new mountain type situation.
Speaker A: I will say, as ironic as it sounds, money is not the reason why, like, when I first, like, started my entrepreneurship journey, I was like, money is everything, right? But then when I started YouTube, I realized, like, it doesn't matter how much I'm making. Like, I'm just doing this. So money, like, it's crazy. As funny as it sounds, because my content is all about money, I don't even care how much I'm making funny as it sounds. It's weird how it works, but, yeah. Is it? Yeah, yeah. It's just, I think. I think there is a better relationship with the viewer. I feel like it's just. It's just more. It's more. It's more personal, you know? Like, you guys are spending more time together, for sure.
Speaker B: I think it is like a time spent situation. Like, I feel like we really build trust as a function of time spent. And the more time you spend with somebody, like, the more of a relationship you build. Relationships are built on trust. Curious if you think that your shorts audience will transition into long form or if you're thinking about, you know, the audience themselves, the same like, are these long form videos also going to be for your ten year old nieces?
Speaker A: It's a different audience. You know, it's really funny. I want to tell this story because I thought it was absolutely hilarious and it's just going to open up, like, because to me it was huge. I had a little cousin visit my house. It was the first time I ever met her because she was also from another country and she's like seven years old. She came into my house. First thing she said, I'm cousins with a famous youtuber. It was so funny. And then the second thing she said, she was telling me how she loves my shorts. And she was like, you know what? You should check out. I was on YouTube and I noticed they have these horizontal videos that are shorts but just long. And I was like, that's crazy.
Speaker B: That's crazy. That type of thing breaks my mind. It's like, it's like the videos where it's like we asked Gen Z to listen to and it's like, insert band from my childhood here and like, this is bad.
Speaker A: Exactly. It was one of those moments where you realize it opened. It was like, those are really two different audiences. Because there's some people who probably don't even know long forms are a thing and vice versa. Some people that don't even know shorts are a thing. Then there's the people that know both. So I know I'm gonna get, you know, I'm not gonna get all of my audience. I have had some audience transition, but, yeah, that's where I'm at.
Speaker B: And you think that's a. Is that a YouTube thing or is that an audience preference thing?
Speaker A: I think it's an audience preference thing for sure. Yeah, I think YouTube's doing as funny as it sounds because I feel like a lot of shorts creators, like, oh, I feel so bad saying this because I'm not one of them, but I'm calling them out. Like, there's shorts creators who have like a million subscribers and then they don't even get like a thousand views on a long form. And then they're like, it's YouTube's fault. Yeah, but, like, in reality, it's like their fault. You know? Like, I averaged, like, 10 million views on shorts and then on long forms I'm averaging like 50k views, you know? So it's like, I think they're doing a pretty good job at, like, transitioning them. Just obviously not everyone's gonna transition.
Speaker B: All right, last question, which I love to ask people. Is there anything that you believe to be true. And we can relate it to YouTube or shorts. But you don't yet have data to support.
Speaker A: Oh, there's. There's a couple. I'm trying to think what I should. I think I got a good one. I'm gonna say two. Okay. Because there's two that are really good.
Speaker B: Bonus.
Speaker A: I think shareability really matters, but I haven't done enough, like, analysis on that yet. But I'm sure I can do my own analysis. It's very tough because there's a lot of factors that come into play because, you know, I could argue this video has a lot of shares. That's why I blew up. But then I could also just argue that the retention was high. So do you really know? I don't know. So that's my hinge. I think shareability really does help. Although I will say, like, one of my shorts, it has, like, such high shares. It has, like, what was it like, the shares to view ratio? It's 20%, which is extremely high.
Speaker B: That seems very high.
Speaker A: And this growth through rate is, like 92%, which is insane. And it's probably because the shares are that high. And then my second hunch is that retention doesn't matter as much as people think it does.
Speaker B: Say more.
Speaker A: It's very interesting because I have a lot of friends who will send me their retention graphs or their data, their analytics, and there's people within a similar amount of impressions as me. Their retention will be so much higher than mine. There's friends, they would have a 42nd short that has 100k views and over 100% retention. And I'm like, oh, my gosh, this video is going to get 10 million views. It's not even niche either. But then it never does that. But then for me, like, yeah, like, for me, what's crazy is, like, you know, I've had a short before where I had, like, 70% retention on the first 100k views, which is, like, really bad. Like, really, really bad for shorts. And it still got, like, 10 million views because it was, like, all returning viewers, you know? So it's like, I just have a hunch that, like, you know, like, I don't know. I don't know what it is, how they're measuring it. It's just viewer satisfaction. It can't just be retention, you know?
