All right, Dr. Rhonda Patrick, everyone changes their mind, changes their perspective on things. What are a few things in the world of fitness, nutrition, whatever that you've changed your mind on in maybe the last five to seven years? There's been. Yeah, there's been, you know, I would say a few things that I've changed my mind on, like, as new data has come out, you know, I mean, that's what any scientist does. You sort of reassess the data data and with new data, become new conclusions. Right. But there's also some things I kind of just. I would say the spectrum of where I fall on has changed somewhat. Probably one of the biggest things I've changed my mind on over the past few years is my stance on meal skipping, skipping a meal. And somehow this has become synonymous with intermittent fasting. Like, people, when they think about intermittent fasting, they think about skipping meal. And that's not intermittent fasting, so to speak. Right. I mean, intermittent fasting is really, there's different types of it, and it has to do with having a period of time without having food intake. But when I say specifically meal skipping, I think mostly it's skipping breakfast. And I think that's actually what a lot of people do end up doing when they are, quote unquote, trying to practice intermittent fasting. And so why I've changed my mind. I used to often skip breakfast myself. And I think as new data has come out and as I've talked to a lot of experts on muscle protein synthesis and like Stu Phillips, for example, Brad Schoenfeld, I've come to this conclusion that not getting enough protein in that really important meal after you've been fasting all night, we don't store amino acids. We don't store them like we do. We store glycogen for glucose. We store fat in adipose tissue triglycerides. We don't store amino acids. We need a constant source of it. And when we don't get amino acids, we start to experience muscle breakdown. And so it's always a balance between muscle protein synthesis and breakdown. Right? And there's two signals for muscle protein synthesis. Protein intake specifically has to do with essential amino acids, like leucine being a major one that signal muscle protein synthesis. And then the other signal is mechanical stress. Right. So just resistance training, essentially. Right. The forces mechanically stressing your muscles. Right. So that first meal, breakfast, is so important because you're essentially at the point where you need protein. And so you get into this sort of catabolic state. If you're not getting protein at that point now, somewhat. If you're doing resistance training, that can sort of help offset that a bit because you are getting that other signal, right, to help get the muscle protein synthesis going. But I think that, then again, also just if you're skipping a meal, that's an entire meal, you're not going to have protein. So are you going to make up for that protein in your other couple of meals that you're going to have? I was not doing that. I was not. And I was of the opinion that I was getting enough protein. And that's kind of another, I think, area I've changed my mind on as well. But the meal skipping part, I think, is the big thing. That was a big eye opener for me because there had been some studies where intermittent fasting had led to a little bit of muscle atrophy. And these were non people that were doing resistance training, by the way, there's other studies that have shown doing, like, intermittent fasting in combination with resistance training. Like one in females comes off the top of my head. I remember the study on that blunted some of that muscle atrophy effect. In other words, they could still skip a meal, but they weren't going to get that atrophy as much. So I think the meal skipping is one of the biggest things, and people go, well, is that time restricted eating? Do you not like time restricted eating? No, I do think time restricted eating is very important. So time restricted eating being, eating all your food within a certain time window, and then having a certain window, a period of time where you're not eating, you're not digesting, you are not in that state. And I still think there's a lot of evidence that eating within a time window is important metabolically. So we are very insulin sensitive earlier in the day as the day goes on, and we get towards, like, when we're producing melatonin, nighttime, we become less insulin sensitive. Like black and white studies on that. People given the same exact calories, the same exact macronutrients, the same meals at different times in the day, their insulin response, their blood glucose levels much, much better, everything metabolically better during the day, early morning versus evening, same meal. Right. So you're more insulin resistant later in the evening. Right. So you don't want to be eating your meal at, like, 10:00 at night, necessarily. Right. But also you need a period of fasting to digest. I mean, sorry. You need a period of fasting to repair. You don't want to be digesting because just like when you sleep, you're not thinking. We're not, like, firing a bunch of neurons and cognition. It's not happening. You're resting. Your brain needs to rest. Like, if you never rest, if you never slept, you'd be a mess. Like, you couldn't think. Well, digestion is the same way. When you're digesting your food, like, all your organs are working, this isn't repair mode. You're not in repair mode. So you need a period of time when you are not digesting, and that is when repair for your dna happening happens. So, like, dna repair is happening when you're in a fasted mode. This mostly happens during sleep. You're repairing the damage to your dna. This is when things like autophagy happen, right? Like this, clearing out other gunk and stuff inside your cells. So different repair processes happen during a fasted state. And so I think that is important to have that still. So time restricted eating I still think is beneficial, but I don't know. People have taken time restricted eating and said, oh, I'm going to skip a meal, and then I have my time window shorter of eating because I skipped that meal. I'm extending my fasting part. I don't think that's the right way to look at it. I think that is the wrong way to look at it because you're then skipping that whole protein bolus that you're going to get to make sure you're stimulating muscle protein synthesis and not becoming catabolic. Right. And so I think that, plus, then maybe sometimes you're shifting your meals a little bit later and again. And even to sleep better, it's better to not eat, like, 3 hours or so before you're actually going to bed. Because even if you have your last bite at, let's say, 06:00 p.m. Or 07:00 p.m. It's like three to 5 hours of all the digestion, all that stuff. So you don't even really start the fasting clock until like, three to 5 hours after that last bite. I think that's one of the biggest areas where it's like, I don't skip breakfast. That's a big one. I think people have caught a lot of heat for that, too, because for so many years, I lost a lot of weight with intermittent fasting. But as time has gone on, especially being lean, I'm like, well, if I fast a lot, then there's nothing to really pull from. For me, it's become, okay, maybe two days a week of ETRF and it's nothing extreme. It's like where if I'm going to fast, maybe I'll skip dinner instead of skipping breakfast. And I've actually found that breakfast is probably one of the more important meals of the day because it's what you are literally breaking your fast with. And it's your time to breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince, dinner like a popper has always kind of been my philosophy anyway. And it's like fasting being a little bit more of the anomaly rather than the rule being something that's like occasionally be like, you know what? Yeah, it's a good day to do a 17 hours fast. Perfect. But it's not going to be something to do every day. And you said something important too. I do think a lot of people that do. When you're skipping meals, it's not just intermittent fasting. It's also you're reducing your calorie intake. That's one less entire caloric meal that's gone right. And people that are overweight, people that are obese, they can really benefit a lot from caloric restriction. You can lose a lot of weight, especially the more fat mass you have, the less you're going to be losing muscle from that. Because like you said, you have so much to pull from. I think that it's easier for people to implement when they think of counting their calories. It's just too much work. But when they're like, oh, I'll just not eat, essentially, they're performing caloric restriction through another way, right? It's just another way of getting less, fewer calories. And it is effective way to lose weight. But like you said, when you start to get a little bit leaner, like, let's say you're like that mom that wants to lose that extra ten to 20 pounds or something. This is brought to my mind from Brad Schoenfeld. He pointed the study out to me that up to 30% of the weight loss can come from muscle. If you're not doing resistance training, because people are just not getting their protein, they're skipping meals, they're not getting that other extra two important signals, they're not getting one of them. And then on top of that, if they're not doing resistance training, they're not getting any of them. So their protein intake is not enough and they're not stressing their muscles to prevent their muscles from. Your body is essentially like, I need amino acids. I'm going to pull from muscle. Your muscle is a reserve. I said, you don't store amino acids. I guess technically your muscle is a reserve of amino acids, but you don't want to pull from your muscle. So it's not really like. No, it's a reserve. Last resort. Yeah. It's like a survival mechanism. So, yeah, I think that you brought some really important points there with respect to. It is a very effective weight loss strategy when done right. Certainly people that are obese and overweight have a lot more that they can work with than people that are not quite people that are just interested in, oh, longevity. I want to do time restricted eating. Well, you don't want to be skipping breakfast every day. If you're already, like, normal weight, there's no reason to do that. Like you said, early time restricted eating. Etre or ETRF, time restricted feeding is another way to do that where you're just essentially, you're eating the same number of meals, but you're doing it in a smaller window instead of just all day. Right. Like, spreading them out and not having a period of fasting where you're like, repair mode. Like, you want to be in repair mode. That's important. Yeah, I sort of have a standard of. My general rule is 1212. That's kind of just what I naturally fall into. It's like I kind of just don't eat from, like, seven to seven. That's pretty easy for me to do almost daily. And I don't really think about it. I get up in the morning, I usually train fasted just because I feel better that way. And then it just so happens that my post workout meal is also my breakfast, and everything's hunky dory. Okay, so that's one. What's another thing? You've changed your mind? I have just launched my signature truffles with thrive market. So these are low sugar. In fact, they're actually keto friendly. They're sweetened with alulose, utilizing ethically sourced cacao, and also using hazelnut butter to give it a really well rounded taste. So two different flavors. There is a hazelnut pecan crunch, which literally has a crunch to it. It's, like, velvety smooth. But then when you bite into it, you get the crunch in there as well. And a hazelnut mocha flavor for those that like that little coffee bite to it as well. So these things are completely low carb. There's only a tiny, tiny bit of sugar in them to begin with. The primary sweetener is alulose, and everything else is ethically sourced. So I partnered up with thrive because we've worked on products together. But it was finally time for us to actually create a product that has the Thomas Delauer signature on it. So that link down below saves you 30% off your whole grocery order through thrive market. But you're more than welcome to apply that 30% off to these truffles as well, which are priced at 1099, so they're not too bad to begin with. But then when you apply that 30%, it's even better. Plus you get a free $60 gift whenever you sign up with thrive market as well. So that link is down below in the top line of the description underneath this video. Well, I think sort of piggybacking on that would be. It's not necessarily changed my mind, but just because it's related. We'll talk about this. It's a little bit where I am on the spectrum, which is protein intake. So the RDA for protein intake is about 1.8 grams/kg body weight, right? And I always thought that was enough. I always thought that was enough, because I think people are meeting that you don't want too much protein, because then you can start to get into the IGF one arm where if you're not physically active, you're activating growth pathways that could allow damaged cells to become cancerous, form tumors, things like that. Right. But until, like, talked to Stu Phillips, had him on, my know, he and others have shown that the tools that were used to come up with that RDA are way out of date. Like everything. It takes so long to get things updated. Like, you make a rule and then new data comes in, and then that rule just lingers for ten years. Or you're like, why are we still doing this thing that we know isn't right? Doesn't make sense anymore. Well, there's new tools where essentially the protein losses were. They were basically, at the time, I think they were underestimated, if I got that correctly. So in other words, they were underestimated. Whereas actually, you're actually losing more amino acids, and so you need more protein to replenish just those losses of just normal steady state living. And then you add on top of that, working out where you're actually stressing your muscles, then you need even more. And so some of their research indicates that 0.8, not 1.8. I totally got that wrong. 0.8 grams/kg body weight is the RDA, not 1.8. Please make sure that's known. So 0.8 grams/kg body weight is the RDA. It's more like 1.6 grams/kg body weight is what's just needed to not lose muscle mass, which is a lot higher than the RDA. And then when you talk about training and stuff, you can go maybe even a little bit above that, up to like 2 grams/kg body weight. If you're like some elite level bodybuilder, I mean, maybe more, but then you're getting to little bits, right, of getting a little bit of more benefit out of it. So I think that's another thing I've really changed my mind. I've really been a lot more cognizant on my protein intake. And instead of having a smoothie for a midday snack alone, I'll have some salmon or some sardines or some source of protein. Oftentimes it ends up being fish, but, like leftovers as my snack. So it's like, okay, because I do end up working out a lot. Even if I'm only doing like a quick 20 minutes hit or something, I'm doing something each day. And so it's like getting that protein has become a lot more important. And I think it is really important because muscle mass is hugely important. As we age for frailty, it becomes a big risk for falling, breaking something. And also, just like, once you get to that point, it's kind of like, I forgot who, I think it was Brad Schoenfeld who came up with this analogy. And I love it. So he gets credit for it, but it's kind of like a retirement fund, right? So you want to put in what you can earlier in life to build that muscle mass. Because once you reach a certain age, like when you get to 50, it becomes harder to gain muscle mass. I mean, strength, you can still pull that lever a bit if you work at it, but it's not as easy to gain muscle mass, and you're pulling from it a lot more. And so you want to build that reserve up before you get to that point so that you have more to work with, right? Just like a retirement fund, you want to contribute, because once you start to get to the age where you can't work anymore, you want to retire. That's your funds. You have what you have, and then you're going to be pulling from it, right? As a woman as well. It's like bone mass is also into that whole factor where you want to buy in earlier. You want to build your bone mass, build your muscle mass, because once you start to hit your 50 and you get to 60, really, then it just kind of gets worse and worse, where you're going to be pulling from that. So you want to really focus on muscle mass because of this. What I would say Stu Phillips has sort of coined as what's called, it's like the disability. You know, a lot of animal studies that have been done on this protein stuff. And look, I bought into this as a scientist. I did research in the aging field for a long time. Very familiar with the researchers and all the studies out there doing studies on how low protein intake can extend lifespan and rodents, it can extend health span, what's called healthspan. So they're less likely to get cardiovascular disease and cancer and things like that. But you have to realize that animals are in a sterile environment. They're not being exposed to influenza and all the respiratory diseases and everything out there. Right? It's not like a human who's like 70 or 80, where you got something that gets you in the hospital and you're then bedridden for a couple of weeks. You lose enormous amounts of muscle mass that you'll never gain back. And I've seen it personally from my own family member, and I know a lot of people have this, where it's like a family member is older, they go in for a surgery or they go in for, again, like they're in the hospital because they're really sick, and then they lose all this muscle mass, and then they just can't really walk as well as they used to. And it starts to go down, this trajectory of exponential. Just down. And that's really where the more muscle mass you have to start, you have to go. And you're convalescing for a couple of weeks. You're not using your muscles if you have more to pull from. And also it's easier to kind of gain back some of that strength, too. Then you're in so much better shape. And that's kind of, for me where it was like, you know, some of these animal studies aren't really that relevant because of that. There's that aspect of just being exposed to diseases that really get us in trouble or even just a surgery, something that, where you're not going to be moving around for a month. And when you're like 75, 80 years old, that's really impactful on your quality of life and also on just your future trajectory of aging. So I think the protein intake then has become a little more important. Now, again, if you're not physically active, I don't know that you need to be consuming massive protein bars and whey protein shakes and all that. You need to lose your weight and also, just being physically active is important. You need to incorporate those amino acids into muscle. Yeah, absolutely. If you're not, then you are potentially activating growth pathways like IGF one that can allow damaged cells to not die when they otherwise would. I think Dr. Don layman, I think, had mentioned that he estimates that about like 70% to 75% of it is the stimulus. Like, get the stimulus first. That's like, first and foremost, obviously. And he's coming out of a protein lab. Right. So, I mean, he's definitely telling us that protein is important. And these sentiments are definitely echoing things that he said. But he said, at the end of the day, first and foremost, if you don't have the stimulus and then same, you look at the longevity research. It's like the longevity research that does incorporate stimulus shows otherwise that protein is important. Whereas if you're not, again, looking at a rodent model study and you're looking at, oh, methionine is an issue and all this and that, you're like, okay, yeah, when there's no stimulus and when there's no additional taxation on the body. So I think there's context definitely needs to be had. Right. Not to mention these mice are largely, like, sedentary if you put an exercise will in them. The only exercise wills I've seen in little animal cages in a lot of these labs is when they're doing exercise studies. They don't usually have exercise wills. It's really unfortunate, to be honest, because if you do put an exercise will, the mice, they'll just naturally want to run and run. They feel better. So these mice are sedentary. They're largely sedentary. And you're just like, of course, if you take away all that protein, it's just not the same. It's just not the same. So you get a human who's physically active. Do they need to be protein restricting? I don't think so. I think that's probably counterproductive. So there's like mixed signals coming in from, because you have this science out there going, oh, protein restriction improves longevity, at least in rodents. And here's all these mechanisms. But then again, it's like, well, these are like sedentary mice that are not being exposed to influenza. I don't know, there's a lot of different factors here. Right? Same, yeah. All right, next. Okay, so, yeah, another thing that I've changed my mind on, and this is actually very recent, is it's kind of interesting, but it's adding bananas to my smoothie. Well, I did stop adding bananas a long time ago, but I've now really now have to avoid it. I know you're looking at me like, please do. No, this is interesting. Yeah. Smoothies. One of the reasons I like to make smoothies. Well, there's a couple of real important ones. Most of my smoothies, I get greens. So a big dose of, like, greens. A lot of times it's kale. Ends up being kale. And then a lot of berries, like blueberries. And blueberries have polyphenols in them. They have flavonoids, they have anthocyanins. All of these things have been shown to improve blood flow. This is, in human studies, berries, giving people, like, even just berries, frozen extract of blueberries. It increases brain derived neurotrophic factor. Actually, these flavonoids, brain derived neurotrophic factor, is essential for growing new neurons. That's called neurogenesis. That's very important for cognition. It's important for staving off brain aging. I always feel really good after doing the berries, and so I love doing my smoothies. And so it used to be I would add a banana, kind of like, I'd also get some potassium from that, but also just kind of make it a little creamier and stuff. Well, it turns out bananas have an enzyme in it called polyphenol oxidase. As the name implies, it actually degrades polyphenols. So it's counter. And this was a human study that came out recently, adding bananas to the berry smoothies, blueberries and stuff. Metabolites of polyphenols were significantly lower in plasma from people that had the smoothie with the banana added versus not with the banana. I know it was kind of like, oh, my goodness. So this is, like, the one thing I'm trying to get the polyphenols. That's the whole goal of why I'm. Partly the goal of why I'm drinking the smoothie is for those polyphenols, like, a high concentration of blueberries. So the other foods that are high in it are collard greens and also, like, chard. And I used to add chard to my smoothies because swiss chard is, like, a great source of magnesium. It's a great source of potassium, of lutein. So I no longer add chard to my smoothies. And then beets are also high. So I don't add beets. I didn't really ever add beets to my smoothie in the first place, but I did do bananas and chard. Interesting. None of the other foods that I've looked at have quantities that have been shown to even be relevant at all. So we're talking, like, these foods are, like, exceedingly high. And so, like I said, again, the anthocyanins, the polyphenols, the flavonoids. Flavonoid is a type of polyphenol that are in, for example, berries, blueberries, strawberries. They are beneficial. They've been shown to be beneficial in a variety of human studies, randomized controlled trials, beneficial for cognition, for improving cardiovascular health, for improving blood flow to the brain in both young and older individuals, for increasing brain drive, neurotrophic factor, which, of course, exercise can do, omega three can do other things. But this is something that you want from the berries. And if you go to any smoothie place, literally every smoothie place, if you want to get a smoothie, there's, like, a banana in it. And I think that that needs to change. The banana needs to be taken out. And if you want a creamy sort of consistency to your smoothie, the avocado is the way to go, because the avocado gives it to you. Its ppo levels, that's the polyphenol oxidase, negligible, and it also has high in potassium. So then you're getting, like, what you wanted from the banana, and then it has less sugar. So, I mean, it's just win win, and it's got a little bit of fat. So it makes some of the carotenoids in the smoothie, like Lutein and Zazanthin. It increases their bioavailability up to fourfold. And these are things that are actually not just good for eye health, but they've been found to accumulate in the brain, and they're associated with improved cognition. So there have been, like, studies where supplementation with it improves cognition. So that's cause and effect. Right. But also there's been observational data. People that have higher circulating levels of these, what are called carotenoids, they're Lutein, insiazanthin. They're really high in leafy greens. Again, adding the avocado, they're fat soluble. So adding the avocado increases their bioavailability. Well, people that have higher circulating levels of them have higher crystallized intelligence when they're older. So again, and coming back to cognition as well. So I think adding the avocado is a really good substitute for banana. It might be a little bit more expensive. Maybe that's why smoothie places don't do it. But I do think that it's something important to keep in mind, because a lot of people that are getting smoothies now, you still, look, you go get a green smoothie. It has a little bit of banana. Like, you're still going to be getting magnesium. You're going to be getting some lutein, zazanthin. You're going to be getting calcium. You're going to be getting important micronutrients. But if you have berries in there, the polyphenols, or if you're mixing a cacao smoothie with a banana, people do that like, the cocoa has high amount of flavonoids as well, which, again, improve blood flow to the brain. They increase brain drive, neurotrophic factor. That, again, should be like, do not add the banana to that because it degrades those polyphenols. And I know it's like not having any. So that's another thing that I've really changed my mind on. I've mentioned BDNF a lot, so I did just come out with a free BDNF guide. People can learn a variety of protocols that can increase BDNF, including what I just mentioned, some of the berry drinks and the cocoa doses and stuff, as well as exercise protocols, intensities and stuff. So I have a free guide. You can find that@bdnfprotocols.com. For anyone interested in learning more about protocols for BDNF and increasing it as well. Sweet. Yeah, I'll link that down below as well. So do you happen to know if with chard, for instance, does heating it possibly break down this enzyme? Because I don't know, a lot of people that would eat, like, swiss chard raw. I mean, maybe put it in a smoothie, which would be practical for this conversation. But if I ever had it, it was usually, like, sauteed or something with a little bit of olive oil or something. I think it is a heat sensitive enzyme, as far as I remember. I don't know to what degree, but, I mean, no one's cooking their banana. The banana is the major source. No one's cooking the banana. The chard again? Yeah. Most people that are eating chard, and it's only a problem if you're eating your chard and then drinking your cocoa flavonol drink or you're eating your blueberry and you're trying to get the flavonol. They're trying to get those. It's just inhibiting the absorption. It's not like a lasting effect degrading them. So essentially not. It's like you have a big cup of blueberries that's high in polyphenols, and then you mix in the banana, and it just chops up. It degrades the polyphenols as if they're not there. Yeah, because the polyphenols, I mean, in essence, they also act similarly to a prebiotic. They kind of are a prebiotic. So I'd imagine when you also degrade them, you're not getting any of the gut flora effect, either short chain fatty acid benefits or anything like that. Not necessarily. There's other components in berries, like skin and stuff that are also fermented by the gut. But a large part of the health benefits of berries are from polyphenols, for sure. So it's definitely, like, for me, it was like. And it's just one study that just, this is like, a new. Five months ago. It was so recent that there needs to be follow up studies, but, I mean, it was pretty compelling. And it was humans too. Yeah, that's awesome. I don't know that it's awesome, but it's awesome because usually when you have these kind of almost esoteric seeming things, like, okay, this enzyme, people might sensationalize online, but this is actually out of a human study that's legit. It's not like saying, like, oh, don't eat apples, because pectin is going to make your hair fall. Right? No, it's not connecting the dots, but I will say they didn't like. So there have been studies looking at giving humans either, like, a big, fresh berry mix or freeze dried blueberries, where the polyphenol content is very high and it improves x, y, or z. So, for example, x being cognition. Right. The study didn't look at the endpoints that were functional to say that, oh, if you give them the blueberries plus the banana, the cognition benefits they usually get from the blueberries was gone. It didn't show that. It just showed the polyphenol levels. So there's certain metabolites that are measured in plasma after drinking a high, like, for example, berry mix because there's a lot of polyphenols and berries and that you can measure that in your plasma. Those metabolites were, like, dramatically reduced. Dang. So biomarkers. Speaking about biomarkers. Yeah, the biomarkers of polyphenols that you would normally see in plasma were, like, really low. All right, get your potassium from an avocado, then. All right, well, aside from bdnfprotocols.com, where can everyone find you? So I'm on YouTube. I have a YouTube channel called Foundmyfitness, where I have a podcast. I do videos. I also am on Apple podcasts, on Spotify as well. And I have a website, foundmyfitness.com. Lots of topic articles with reference and links to our episodes and stuff. And then I'm on social media again. Found my fitness. All one word is the name. Or you can just search Rhonda Patrick. I'll come up as well. Perfect. Well, Dr. Patrick, I'm super grateful. Thank you. And as always, keep it locked in. See you soon.