Yeah. Welcome, everyone. And this is episode one, potentially the first and only episode, depending on how this goes, of just in case where I'm gonna take real life cases from real students and then dissect them and basically walk through my thinking process so you can learn from how I'm thinking about and approaching it, but also apply these cases to your own learning and your own scenarios as well. So we've got a group of people here that you'll get to meet very soon, and we're going to go through as many of these as possible, as deeply as possible. So I will also be monitoring the comments as well. If there's anything that you particularly want me to go into a little bit deeper, just put it into the comments and I'll do my best to answer them. I might not be able to answer them as fully if we don't have time, but we will keep note of questions that are, like, worthwhile to go into in the future. And then we might make some more videos about that later, but good. All right, welcome, everyone that's just joining. We'll get started now. So the first batch of work that we'll review are from three people called Marie, Warissa, and Kostubi. Marie, we'll start with your work, and if you can just start by talking about what exactly it is that you are kind of struggling with and that you would like help on. Okay, so my question is how to learn a subject in a foreign language that is not your native language. Because in my case, I am Korean but was born in Russia, so my native language is Russian, but I have to study all my subjects in Korean. And so before even learning new information, I have to double translate everything from Korean to English. And only then, yeah, start learning something. So it's very frustrating because I spent a lot of time doing this, and it actually doesn't help me a lot because I still don't get good grades. Yeah. Okay. So just walk me through the process that you're using right now in terms of actually translating this and how you're approaching it step by step so I can kind of visualize what you're doing. Yeah. So, for example, there is a book, and I have to translate almost every word that is in this book into English. And then after I translated it, I just usually take linear notes, but it actually doesn't work very well. So I just translated, remember, words that I translated into English. And then if I have a test, I just remember these words that I've remembered and try to match them. Yeah. Because the original text is actually. So the original text that you were reading in, like, is it. You have to translate everything? Yeah, almost everything. Like 80%, maybe. And what type of resources kind of are we talking about here? And also, what are you using to translate it? Yeah, for example, it's like anatomy book, and I use just Google translate or dictionary translated. Okay. So, well, one question that I would have is, can you just get the. Can you. Can you get a copy of the initial original resource in another language? Yeah, I can find information that I'm learning Korean in English, but I still have to learn it in Korean because all tests are in Korean. Right. So the main thing here is that. So time for my mic to fail. Okay, there we go. Okay. So the main thing here is that it's not just the fact that it's the translation and understanding it, but you have to have it in Korean anyway at the end of the day. Because of the fact that you're going to be assessed in Korean at the end of the day. Yes. Okay. So the question here is then, how. I mean, how successful have your previous attempts been in terms of just learning Korean first, like, to the level where you don't have to do the translation. So instead of just, like, sort of slowly improving your Korean to the point where you can, you know, just spending a more intensive time. Yes, I understand that I need to improve my Korean, but the problem is that information that I'm learning right now, there is more and more information that is new and words that I will meet, like, in the future, I cannot be prepared. But at the moment, you're sort of saying you're translating 80% of everything you're learning. Right. So, yes, there may be new words that are more advanced, but also, it seems like there's kind of, like, a massive amount of stuff that is not that advanced that you're still translating. So basically, there is, like, advanced information, but I can understand maybe intermediate level information. Okay. And the thing that you're struggling with, is it the advanced. Is it exclusively advanced stuff, or is it the intermediate? Like, let's put it this way. If you could get your proficiency, language proficiency, to the point where all of the intermediate things were handled like, you would had total confidence with the intermediate level language stuff, would that save you a significant amount of time or not? I think not. Because, again, there's a bunch of information that is new, and there are words that I don't know, for example. And there'll be more new words because korean language is very wide and. Okay, sure. Right. Okay. So it's a. It's quite a. It's kind of a tricky situation because there's a couple of different angles that I will be looking at, and I'm not. I'm not gonna say, like, I'm 100% sure in terms of what's gonna be the best for you, but there's a few things that I would. I'll be thinking about. So if we think. If we simplify the scenario, I mean, at the end of the day, if your language proficiency is holding you back and it means that you're having to translate everything that you're learning, then that is going to take more time. But the thing that I'm also thinking right now is that you're talking about language that's only for advanced contexts. So most likely that more advanced language is going to be a little bit. It's going to be conceptually a little bit more dense as well. It's not going to be something that's relatively simple. So when you're reading through something, even though you're spending a lot of time translating the more advanced words, it doesn't sound like you would struggle with covering the content to the point where you're actually able to understand what's being said. When you're reading through it, based on what you're explaining, it sounds like you would still have a reasonably good grasp of what's being said. It's just that sort of key words and the concepts and things, you're just not really clear, like, what exactly that word is, but you are seeing, like, what they're trying to say about it. Is that right? Is that accurate? Have I understood that correctly? Yeah. So the problem is with academic words, like medical words that are in Korean, but maybe I know them in English, but I have to still learn in Korean. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And then, as you mentioned, your note taking is relatively linear at the moment. I'll just. Just share that screen as well, just to show. So, this is kind of your notes here. Obviously, it's written in Korean, and they are looking relatively linear. But the thing is. Okay. The thing here is that your notes are not, like, fully linear. There's something that I usually call this mixed. So you have some linear aspects, but then you also have aspects that are a little bit, like, more flowcharted, a little bit more mind mapped. It's not completely linear the whole way through. It's still fairly linear. But you are using some types of diagrams every now and again. So it's somewhat mixed. So. So all the. You've got this. You've got these pages near the end where you just have, like, the korean words and like, the english word next to it. Are these basically all the words that you kind of had to look up? Yeah. So I just created the list of words I have to remember and just learn these words before the exam. Right. I see. I think personally, there's two things that you're going to need to do. Because of the fact that these are advanced, more term like, technical words, you are going to have to actually learn them as is. And given the fact that you don't have time to just kind of, you know, spend like six months just learning words and not study everything else unless you, like, take time off. This is a situation where a simple memorization technique, such as the use of, like, anki or flashcards or something like that, some kind of spaced repetition flashcard method, is going to help you with just remembering the words. The problem with doing that, though, is going to be that it increases your, your repetition volume, which means that you're now going to have to have, for example, flashcards and things on the actual content that you're learning, which is going to take time. And then on top of that, you have to have flashcards on just the language aspect of it, which is going to take even more time. And I can see here, based on just the notes that you've sent me, this is not like one massive topic, but already here you've got 20 to 30 words that you're going to have to add on there. So for every topic, if you've got 30 more flashcards that you're going to have to add on, that's going to start adding on a lot more volume because you're going to have to repeat each one of those things, like three to five times. So every topic, you're giving yourself like 120 cards worth of work that you have to do. So that's, that's not going to become sustainable. So you're going to have to change a few things in terms of the way that you're studying fundamentally, first to try to save yourself a little bit more time as well. When you do your tests and exams and things like that, do you see a pattern in terms of the types of questions that you tend to struggle with the most? When I'm preparing for these, yeah. Do you tend to struggle with questions that are more about just the terminology, or do you tend to struggle with questions that are, you know, actually conceptual as well, or more kind of, you know, complex? No, no, just the problem is with translation, the content I can understand it, but if I see it in Korean, then it's like a blank space. Right? Okay. Yeah. So in this case, I would recommend, you know, adding on those flashcards and then on top of that, try to do a basic association for each word as well, just to try to get a little, just to speed it up a little bit. So even if we are using something like flashcards, we can try to reduce the number of repetitions it's going to take. Instead of requiring five repetitions, we can make it so that it might only require two or three repetitions. So in your notes, I can see that you've actually grouped a couple of these things together, like pharyngeal, palatine, lingual. You've linked these words together and you've created a group based on the fact that they're closely associated. So try to find if you've got, like, let's say a list of 30 to 40 words, try to group these words together and maybe groups of three to four words at most, four words per group, and try to group them together in a way that makes each word a little bit easier to remember. So, for example, like all the types of fluid, right? Interstitial, four x ray, fluoride, intracellular fluid, all the types of fluid, you might group them together. The idea here is that we want to make it so that each word that we're trying, each new word we're trying to remember, we want it to be easier to remember the related words. So we don't want to look at it in terms of, like, one word and then another word and then another word and another word. We want to see it as like this group of words where all of the, all of the words are very similar, either in terms of, you know, the characters that are being used or even in it could even be just based on how you feel. It is easy to remember it. So, for example, if there are some words that the character itself or something is not necessarily the same, however, you find it easier to remember because it reminds you of another word, and in this word also reminds you of that word, right? So the two words themselves may not be directly related to each other, but they could be connected mentally because they both remind you of something similar. So that could be one way you group it, or you could group it based on shared characters or shared root, like root characters or something like that. And so just try to group it in terms of, like, groups of no more than four. So that now, instead of having, if you've got 30 words here, instead of having a group. Instead of having 30 separate flashcards, you'll just have sort of 1010 flashcards of three groups of words. That should help you to reduce the number of repetitions you need to remember them, I think, for now, because there's probably other things that we can optimize with your studying. But given that this translating thing is taking up so much time and mental space, it's going to be the thing that we want to work on the first before moving on to anything else, I think. So that would just be like one very simple recommendation that I could make. Have you tried this before in terms of actually remembering the words in groups of three to four? Yes, I've tried it. And also I've tried to make groups depending on the root of the word, but it doesn't work for many other words. So give me some examples of, like, how it would not work, because you can usually always make it work somehow. It just depends on how you're trying to connect it. Yeah, just maybe one part, like one letter, maybe the same in two words or three words so I can remember them, but by other words, they are not connected. Okay, so if they're not connected, you should actually try to find the words that it would be connected with. So even if you haven't learned it now, it's better to, because there are going to be words that it might be connected with that are not necessarily something that you've learned right now in this particular lecture or something. It could be something that you learn in ten lectures from now in a different topic. It could be something you learn two, three years from now when you're actually talking to people about this topic. Right. So even if there isn't a word that you have picked up directly in your learning that's related, it's going to be better for you to add on at least one or two other words outside of the scope of what you read that are going to help you to remember that the added load of having, let's say, two more words to remember that otherwise you wouldn't have had to try to remember is going to be counteracted by the fact that it's going to be easier to remember it in the first place. You want to avoid isolating information just wherever possible. Have you tried that before for those words that you weren't able to group? No, that's why I was struggling with them and couldn't remember really quickly. Yeah. So I would just give that a go. Just try to make it so that no single word is ever viewed in isolation. For everything that you try to encode in, try to make it connected, at least to. To one or two other things and then put them in groups. And then after you've done that, then you'll have some experience in terms of how that worked for you. And you can continue to try to optimize that afterwards. But I'll try to give this a quick go to begin with. Okay. So had a question with flashcards because I used. What is it called? Quizlet. Yeah. Quizlet's not very good, I don't think. Personally, I don't believe Quizlet is very good. Yes. Just I can memorize words, but maybe for two weeks and then I can't remember them. So I had this problem. Yeah. So that's a symptom. So not being able to remember and recall something is a symptom of the fact that it was too isolated. So what I've told you about right now, this should help you to reduce the isolation to begin with and therefore make it more memorable naturally. Like, if you have three different words and you forget one of them, the other two words are going to help you remember that first one. That's the way that it kind of works. So you want to just increase the amount of almost like, redundancy. Yeah. It increases the safety of every piece of information by making sure that's nicely padded up and connected. Give that a go. We'll move on to the next person and their questions. Thanks for that, Marie Warissa. We'll move on to your work here. Can you just tell me what the problem that you are facing is? Okay, so my basic problem is that I'm. I face problems with revision because I have exams which are like, if I have an exam on 20th, then I have an exam on 21st, 25th, 26th, 27th. Like, it's a consecutive eight day stretch of exams. And in India, we have the system of going to, like, a different location to give our examination other than our parent location or where I'm usually studying. So it takes around like 1 hour, two hour for traveling. So after that I have, like, just about five to 6 hours of time to actually review everything that I've done for that subject. And each subject has, like, hundred marks for the exam. So I suffer a lot with, like, revision patterns because I don't really get the time. The content is huge, but then I don't get the time to, like, revise everything. Yeah. What's. So when, like, let's say that you learn something for the very, very first time on the first of the month. Okay. Okay. When would your test and exam be for that? Actually, I am doing a professional course. So we have like a six month gap before every exam. Six months or seven months. So I can take mock tests on my own, but the main paper would be after six months. Okay. So when you're like. So even if. And you're saying that those exams are all kind of like back to back, right. So you don't really have any time between exams to review the material again. Okay. So the important thing here is going to be about not needing to review it on the very day. So even if you've got an exam like 25th, 26th, 27th, 28, 29, you want to get to the point where it doesn't matter. You don't have to even look at it again. Well, because you've got sort of six months before that, right. To make sure that you're at a good position, you don't want to have it. So that the performance of your exam depends on what you did the 5 hours before the exam. So how are you preparing yourself in the six months leading up to the block of exams? So basically my study pattern is first I do priming. So I like to prime perform exams. I go through past your question papers. I look up like, YouTube videos on, like, if there are existing videos on the topic that I'll be studying. And then I further go on to, like, video lectures that I get from my professors. So I just. It's a recorded lecture, so I watch and like, you know, annotate whatever he's dictating and like, ask us to underline and stuff. And then I just know down the difficult points and stuff. And once I'm done, I try to make notes and that's it. After that revision, due to the amount of content, I don't really get the time to review stuff again. Okay, so, okay, the first 1st thing is going to be just quick question here. This course that you're taking as well, this is actually a course designed like an indian person is like an indian course. Yeah, yeah, definitely. So I'm like, somewhat familiar with the educational norms and practices of India because I've just got so many indian students. And in most cases, I've found is that the practice of how indian education tends to teach focuses on a lot of volume, volume, style of teaching, which is not necessarily effective and efficient way of learning, especially for sort of modern day types of assessments. So one of the things that you said was that you're kind of like annotating things and underlying things that the lecture sort of told you to underline. I wouldn't do that. I wouldn't follow the instructor's advice on how to learn it because it's most likely that the way that they would trained on how to teach things is in a way that the more recent research kind of says that it's not a very effective way of doing things. I know that I have a lot of indian students of all ages and stages really struggle because the way they're trying to learn it is at a very. It uses a lot of that sort of lower order learning, which is how education kind of used to be, especially in Asia. It still is in a lot of places. But then the way that they're being assessed is a mix of different levels. And so it's going to be very hard to achieve those higher levels. It'll be very time consuming and very repetitive to do that. So there's probably a few things that we can optimize in just the first initial way that you're learning the information. I have a look at some of your notes now. So I'm going to change here. You probably won't be able to see this, but I'm just flicking through the things that you've sent through. And your note taking. It looks like it's like a somewhat mixed but mostly linear method of note taking. It looks like I'm going to assume here that these headings that you've created, you've got a heading here that says properties and then geometric mean and then properties of GM. These headings, I'm assuming these are headings that were just given to you. They're the same headings that were taught to you. They're the same headings that were, you know, in the lesson, is that right? So for the first page is actually like everything that is given in the chapter. And then I sort the sort everything based on the importance so that I don't miss out on stuff because I have a tendency of, like, missing out stuff when I read. So that is what I do, like, make sure that I'm getting the entire thing covered. Okay. So when you're. When you're in the lesson, like the video lesson or whatever, you're. You're learning, how exactly are you, like, where are these notes coming from? Is this happening all after the lesson? Are you doing some of these during the lesson? What's the timeline of this? It's all after the lesson. All of it's after the lesson. Taking notes. While I'm in the class, I tend to focus more on what the professor is saying rather than taking notes. Okay. And when you're priming the topic, you said, are you writing any of these notes, or is it just that kind of first page? It's just the first page. Just this first page. Ask your questions as well. Okay. So I think there's some good stuff that we can work with here, and there's a few areas we can increase your efficiency. We're probably not going to be able to increase the efficiency massively straight away, but there's a few small optimizations we can make that are probably going to overall save you 1015 percent worth of time and just make this, make it a little bit easier. And that time that's saved, we can then reinvest in some other techniques that fill in other gaps, because that's the other part of this that I want to talk about. So it's good that you're actually priming this using, like, videos and kind of basic summaries and things so you get an idea about what's being covered. That's actually very good. What we want to do is instead of writing the notes as you're writing it now, which is just very linear, I want you to start actually doing, doing two things here. I want you to start, first of all, trying to figure out which of the ideas that you've written are the most important out of everything that you've written, sort of. And those ideas, they could be literally like one of one item on your list, or it could be saying, like, okay, these three or four items are all kind of, you know, important for the same reason. And then you can relabel that you can make your own keyword to summarize the idea of multiple things. But what we want to do is for basically any topic, we want to get to a point where there's sort of only like, three to five very key main ideas that we have identified as being the most important. That takes a little bit of time to think about because you have to go back and forth between the information and you have to, like, look at it a little bit again and look up a few things. So after getting this list, it might take you an additional 20 to 25 minutes to figure out what you think are the most important ones and really think about why they're the most important. And then after that, just create a very simple, like, mind map or concept map about how they relate together. Okay. And that's going to form, like, a cognitive sort of reference for you in terms of how the topic overall flows when you're in the lectures. Now, I want you to start adding the main ideas onto this frame, literally adding it onto the frame. The reason I want you to do that is because when you're in the lesson, it sounds like right now the information is coming in very isolated. So it's sort of like information by information and sentence by sentence. And in your head, you're probably thinking about a little bit more, but you want to sort of facilitate that. You want to leverage that. You want to be able to do that thinking a little bit more quickly and a little bit more easily and more deeply and more widely. So that's what note taking can be useful for, is to make some of those parts easier. If you have a general frame of the major concepts that you know are the most important and how they relate to each other. And then from there, you're having new information come in and straight away you're thinking, well, where should I put this? How is this related to this? How does it relate together? And you add branches and you add arrows and you think about that. Then straight away it's making new information put in context. And so it's reducing the isolation. So what that's going to do is it's going to kick up your brain a gear. It's going to help you with remembering the information. It's going to help you to deeply understand it. It's going to help you to get a stronger conceptual understanding for it. And it should make it faster for you to study this material because your brain knows how to think about it instead of looking at each individual other thing in isolation where it becomes somewhat irrelevant. Right. When it's connected together, it becomes more relevant. So after that, after your lecture, you'll have this huge thing with all these things coming off of it, okay? At that point, you can go through, and instead of writing your linear notes as you would right, now, add onto this flow with the other information that you would normally add on. So now it's going to be this huge, massive, very complex, you know, mind map, concept map with lots of things going on. You're going to need to get bigger paper, by the way, or if you've, if you've got a tablet or something, that's very helpful. So I want you to try to replace your linear note taking with this. At that point, when you've got this very crazy set of notes, it's going to be hard to follow. It's going to be basically impossible to follow. So what I want you to do is, let's say a day later or maybe at the end of the week, look through that big flow that you've got and then start cleaning it up. Rearrange some of the items. And your goal here is to try to simplify it and find ways that you can make it more obvious. Everything that you've written, you want to think, is there a way that I can represent this or think about it in a way that makes it so obvious that I don't even need to write it? And that allows you to condense a few things you can carry. You know, you can remove some full sentences most of the time, even without thinking about this. You can usually simplify things and cut out, like, half of the words by taking out full sentences and just having main ideas. But then when you think about how you can not even need to have a certain idea there because it's represented already by the fact that there's an arrow or that it's here versus here instead of here and here, even just placing different things on the page differently and being very intentional about why you're doing that, that can already save time and it can save a lot of space. And that's going to help to clean and organize your thoughts, because if it's organized on your notes and your notes represent your thinking, then it means it's clean and organized in your head. And by the end of that process, you should have something that looks much easier to follow and you should be much more confident in the material. This will take time, and this will take a lot of thinking. It's not going to be the type of studying that's like, you know, writing things out over and over again. It's not going to be repetitive. It's going to be very back and forth thinking. Lots of comparison. Right? And that's, that's what we call higher order thinking. Once you've done that, by doing that, you should be able to save at least. At least you should be able to save a couple of hours per week, at least minimum of study time. So we want to reinvest a little bit of that time in another form of retrieval and practice. So that's a good time for you to then go through the past papers and things that you've got, look through some of those questions and make sure that every time you answer a question, you are, first of all, writing it out fully so you're catching any gaps. And also anytime you're unsure of the answer, when you do a practice paper or question, do you usually check the answer straight away or what do you do with that? I take a red pen and then I try to circle the things that I missed, and I felt like there was a blank or like a gap between the knowledge. Okay, that's good. And then how do you sort of check that? I usually match it with the model answers that were given, and then basically I check it immediately. Okay. So that's something that we can change because there's a big gain that we can have from there. So I talked about this in a previous video. I can't remember which one, but what does it mean to say that it was the USMLe step one video? So you're not taking the medical video. Sorry. You're not taking a medical exam, but that video is really applicable to any past papers. I'll link in, chat. Yeah, yeah. So have you watched that video, the USMLe step one video? No, I haven't because I'm not preparing for us. No, no, no. Yeah, that's fair. I would actually watch that video because I'll go through the very brief overview. But just check out that video for the full one. But the idea here is that you don't want to rely on the answer sheet. You want to get for every time you do a practice question. You want to get to a point where the answer sheet becomes unnecessary. You want to get to the point where you don't need an answer sheet. So what's more important is your confidence about it. If you answered something and you weren't sure if it was right or wrong, what's more important is that you get to the point where you are confident, where you don't even need the answer, because that is truly testing on the gaps of your knowledge. You don't want to rely on luck, because if, let's say that you answer something and then you check the answers, you weren't sure about it, but you checked the answers and you got it right. Okay. That's not very. That's not important because in the actual exam, they may. They may ask you a similar question, a little bit more different, and then you may just get it wrong. Okay. So what's more important here is your confidence and your level of certainty. So the answer sheet, and depending on answer sheets, is not. It can actually hide gaps. This is another reason why when you do exams and things, you can. You can go through past papers and you may feel like you have, like, you know, you answered everything that you could. And then when you get to the exam, a question that comes up very similar to one that you know you've already studied and you still get it wrong. So it's important that we're not covering up any of these gaps. So again, not checking your answer straight away and then getting to the point where you don't need the answer by reviewing the nodes and looking things up and studying it again, that's going to take more time. And that's the reason why this type of strategy is often very difficult for people that are already don't have any time, which is why step one is we change the way that you're fundamentally learning it first because that's going to allow you to save maybe two or 3 hours a week, which you can then spend on doing this because you've got two, three extra hours per week opening the door for an activity and a method of studying that you previously weren't able to access. Okay, so there's, there's a number of things that we talked about. I'd recommend, you know, when this goes live, when this gets uploaded, to check this again, just to follow the steps exactly. But just give that a go first and just make sure that you are really focusing on making sure that information is not coming into your brain isolated. You always want it in context. You always want to see it in terms of a purpose and a big picture because that's going to allow it to be more relevant and that's going to activate more higher order thinking, which we already know that has a big effect in terms of your overall efficiency and how easy it is for your brain to hold on to that information and then use that information. And that's going to save you time. Okay, cool. Let's move on to the next person. The next person here we've got is kostub. Can you hear me? Yep. So I have two questions. One is about the mind maps and one is about mathematics. So about the mind maps, you have said that the, in the video of the higher order learning, you should get to the word evaluate level. Yes, and I think I'm at the fourth. That's the analyze where I could group several concepts and find some basic relations between those groups of concepts. But in the evaluate level, you said that we should able to prioritize those specific relations. I don't understand how to prioritize. Yeah. So it's good that you're getting to that analyzed level. So for anyone that's watching this that's not familiar, the analyzed level is talking about sort of a level of learning where you are finding that different things are related to each other. There are relationships. So here's the difference between analyze and evaluate. And this is a big difference. There's a big jump. Analyzing something means, you know that there is a relationship between two things and you are aware that there are similarities and differences, and, you know, you can sort of roughly explain what that is. Evaluate means that you know the purpose of that relationship and how important that is for that purpose or for a range of different purposes. Right. So when we're talking about prioritizing relationships, I'm looking through your notes right now, and I'm seeing you do have lots of relationships. So this is a very typical. So anyone that's watching this, this is a very typical type of work that you can see from someone that is at that just analyzed level that's just one step away from reaching the higher orders of thinking, is that you often find that there are lots of arrows, lots of relationships. There's clearly things related to each other. But characteristically, it's very hard to follow what's going on at a glance. It's very hard to see what's happening. So across all of the things that I'm seeing, I'm seeing there are arrows, but it's hard to track it. There is also two other things that I'm noticing that will probably give you an immediate improvement. The first thing that I want you to work on is something that we call a wheel and spokes pattern. In most of the mind maps that you've sent through, you have a central theme in the middle where everything comes off from. This can sometimes actually make it harder for you because of the fact that it creates the illusion that the ideas are related to each other when actually they're not. So, for example, we have a mind map here called. Actually, there's a really good example here, the chemical kinetics one, we have 123456 things coming off from this idea of chemical kinetics in the middle. And all of those six things are actually related to each other. But because of the fact that it's coming from the thing in the middle, it gives the illusion that we have actually connected it. But it's not really. All we have said is that all of these things belong in the topic of chemical kinetics. It doesn't actually explain what the relationship is or why it is relevant or why it's in this topic and how it connects everything else. And it makes it a little bit harder to follow because that means that every single mind map you have has this kind of outwards radiating appearance every single time. So one thing that we recommend, and this is not always the case, in every situation, there are plenty of times where it doesn't have to be like this. However, what I would recommend in your situation is to remove the central theme from the middle. Don't start the topic with chemical kinetics. Start the topic by figuring out what you think the most important main groups and ideas are, and relate the groups and ideas with each other first. So now it's going to create more of a flow rather than like a wheel, you know, with like, you know, lines radiating out from it. That small change will make a very big difference because that's going to force you to think about how the main ideas are related to each other a little bit more deeply, and it's going to force you to think, is this really even a main idea in reality, or do I just feel like it is? But now that I think about it, it's not really. It's actually something else. So it's going to force you to think about it like that. Okay, so that's the first thing that I would recommend. The second thing that I'd recommend is you've got, you know, again, in this chemical connects one, we can see there's six things coming out from it. No single group should have more than four things coming from it. And I call this a two four rule. People in my program are very, very familiar with this because I harp on about two four rule all the time. Two four rule says you should aim to have only two main ideas coming off any individual group at a maximum of four things. Okay, so you've got six things here in chemical kinetics. You don't want that. You want to reduce that down to four. Well, actually, you don't want chemical connection there at all. But even for something else, like, I'm trying to find another example, it's good that you've sent through lots of stuff to look through. I mean, it's actually kind of hard to find a specific example. But, like, basically, if you had any, any individual, single group and that had more than four things coming off of it, you want to make sure that that's not going to be the case. You'll find this is, you'll realize that it's harder than it seems when you take that central theme out, because now you're having to connect things differently. It's going to change the structure, it's going to change the flow, it's going to change the way that you think about a lot of things. And you'll find that it's harder to stick to that two four rule. And the reason that that's important is there's a number of reasons in terms of your, you know, the mental effort that it takes to hold on to the amount of information, the effect that that has on your retention and your memory. But it importantly forces you to be very, very clear in terms of how you're prioritizing ideas. It's no longer enough just to say, okay, here's something, and it's connected to this, this and this and this. You have to say, okay, there's too many things I need to figure out the two most important things. And that, again, that filter makes you think about the information to a higher level because now you have to fit it within two. Okay, yeah, actually, I've done that. I mean, I was experimenting with mind maps. I have actually sent the sn reactions, I believe. So it's at the end of the album. End of the album. So the one. Which one are you talking about? What's the name of the document? Yeah, it's just the mind maps. Is it the last mind map that you've got? I mean, I'm not seeing. I mean, I'm not seeing one where you've got. I'm not seeing one where you don't have a central theme and where you have the two four. I mean, I see ones where there aren't more than four things coming off of it at any given point. So I can see parts of that, but I'm not seeing one that doesn't also have a central theme. What's important is that you remove the central theme in this case as well, on top of sticking to the two four rule, because it gets harder to stick to the two four rule when you take the central theme out. Yeah. So I would give that a go first, the idea here is just like, the main thing here is you are identifying relationships, but you're not clearly prioritizing and making the judgment on what is the most important about this. That's. That's the main thing that you're missing. Okay. And in those mind maps, I have purposefully not written the answers like the formulas. So should I keep it that way? Yeah, stick with that for now. Yeah, that's good. That that's what you're doing right now. Okay, cool. Give that a go. We'll move on to the next person. So the next round of work that we're going to review is from Ty, Cynthia, Khalik, and Kevin. So, Ty, do you want to tell us about what the difficulty that you faced is? Hi, can you hear me? Yep. So I guess it's a few problems spread throughout my learning process. The first has to do with my pre study process. And I want to know if it's necessary to pre study when you have, I guess, a group of pretty much secluded knowledge or isolated knowledge for something like math, maybe, or physics. So let's think about what the purpose of prestudy, right? Like, why do we do pre study in the first place? Personally, I use it to build on my, basically build a foundation before I get into the learning, I guess. Okay, and how does it build that foundation? Well, I try and build a foundation with, I guess, a minimal amount of information. So, headings from what I'm studying, all keywords. Okay, so that's good. So the idea is that when we're building this foundation, we're using a minimal amount of. So why do we use a minimal amount of information? Right. We don't want too much information because it's going to overwhelm us. Right. It's the. Using a minimal information is purely because the brain is only able to. To handle a certain amount of information at a certain volume, at a certain pace before it gets overwhelmed. So if we think about how much our brain can kind of hold onto and process meaningfully as the volume inside a cup, for example, we can either pour this cup into like a long, narrow kind of test tube, or we can pour it on a desk where it's very thin and wide. And when we're forming schemas and structures about how to understand information relevance and. And therefore, how easy it is for our brain to hold on to information and remember it and all that sort of stuff, that's always going to be easier when we have more things for it to connect to. And it's going to be easier for it to connect to things if it's using, for example, prior knowledge. So if someone were to explain, let's say, let's say you've got like five lectures of physics, okay, well, let's say you've got like an entire, um, you know, like a month's worth of physics in that month's worth of physics. If someone explains that month of physics to you in sort of ten minutes at a very surface level, it's going to be easier for you to understand than if someone were to just go straight in to maximum detail from the beginning and spend, like 10 hours explaining it to you. Right. Relatively straightforward. So the reason that that is going to be easier is because of the fact that it's leveraging off of our prior knowledge more. So we already have a basic understanding of other things. And then, so when we learn something at a simple level, we're able to very quickly and easily make connections about that, and therefore we're building our set of knowledge. When we're learning something, we always want to go in that direction. We always want to build on what we know to the next level, to then to the next level and to the next level and to the next level. And that means that even very detailed, advanced information that may initially seem isolated, it's going to be easier to put it in context and make it more relevant because there are more chances for it to be connected to other related things. Often a problem with trying to make things relevant if it feels in isolation is that we may lack enough understanding about broad enough range of things to figure out how and why it's relevant in a formal education setting. One way that we can kind of make this easier is by just simply looking at how we're going to need to retrieve that information later anyway. So that could be something like an exam that you're looking at at the very beginning just to see what, how exactly do I tend to be tested on this and what are the ways that I might struggle with the most? Like, for example, they may have certain questions that you think, okay, that's reasonably fine, I can just learn and do it. Then there might be some questions that you think, okay, these are like pretty challenging questions, like that's going to be a fairly deep level of understanding about a topic. And even if you don't know the topic, you can read the question and kind of guess that it feels like this kind of question is going to be a little bit more advanced. And so what that can do is it can kind of prime you in terms of the way that you can think about this. So it's kind of this long answer. But to bring it full circle back in terms of do you need a pre study if it feels like it's sort of secluded or isolated in the first place? The number one thing is to understand is it truly secluded and isolated, or is it simply that it feels secluded and isolated right now purely because you lack the information in the early stage to know how it can be integrated and made more relevant in context. Right. So that's the first thing. And so we can do that by first of all, learning about the entire topic at a very surface level. And that can take 1520 minutes very, very quickly getting a scan through the entire topic to think about all the different angles and all the things that you're learning and why that might be relevant, what purpose it serves. And then based on that you might think, oh, I can actually start seeing how some of these things that seemed relatively isolated might actually be relevant for combining it with this thing and then this thing for this kind of purpose. So that could be one thing, but at the end of that, let's say you still don't know, then you might want to go through and look at some exams and see how they're going to test you on it. After doing that, if it is truly isolated, it doesn't seem to be related to anything else. It doesn't help you understand anything else. It doesn't serve any purpose that is shared with anything else that you're learning. And it doesn't even seem like in the exam, they test you in a way that requires you to think about it in relation to anything else other than just it in isolation. Then you do not have to spend too much time on, like, pre study or framing it or whatever. That is the perfect type of information where you would really just rely on memorization on that. The bigger question then is, like, why do they even teach it in your curriculum if it's not even related to anything, you know? So. But you can't control that. So if that is a type of information, then, yes, that's the type of thing that you may just learn through just repetition and memorization. But it's usually the minority even for subjects like maths and physics and things which might seem more isolated, it's not often the case. Definitely sort of less than 10% of the things that you learn should fit into that category. Are you doing. I can't remember. Did you say that you were doing your IGCSe? No, my a levels. A levels? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, I mean, I'm, like, fairly familiar with, like, the A level, like, curriculums in terms of, like, math, physics and. And those subjects. And I can definitely tell you, and we've got, you know, plenty of students for, you know, working through the program that are actually doing those subjects. And I've looked at the work that they've done and the way that they think about it, and I can definitely tell you that there's not much in there that is truly isolated. There's a lot of stuff. I mean, the majority of it feels isolated when you first learn it, but a lot of that is because of the fact that they don't really make the relevance very clear when they teach it to you. But if you go through and, like, learn it at a surface level, you know, very, very broadly, try to think of how it can be connected and the purpose that it serves, and then look at the exams and how they retrieve it. Nine out of ten, like 99 out of 100 times, actually, for something like a levels, you're going to find a way that it actually serves a greater purpose that then makes it easier for you to understand how you can use it, how to think about it, and then, you know, bring your thinking to a higher level. Okay, thank you for that. I guess my second problem would be when I'm actually doing the learning, I kind of get muddled up with the questions I need to use in order to build importance and relationships. I'm not really sure the sort of questions I should ask myself. Yeah, so that's actually a very difficult one to answer because that's not a simple thing because it depends on the subject and it depends on how you tend to think about it versus another person, how they tend to think about it. So I could give you this set of instructions, but you may interpret those instructions very differently to someone else just because of the fact that, you know, it's. It can be misinterpreted in many ways. It's just like a limitation of communicating through language and things that, in my experience, is something that actually requires literal back and forth feedback on, like, okay, I'm going to try to do it this way. Here's what I got to what do you think? And then someone would look at it with a more experienced eye and say, okay, this part is good, but this part you should try to think about it more like this. And you need to build this pattern over time in terms of what is the right way to think about it and what is the wrong way of thinking about it. And that is a method of thinking rather than per subject. You'll notice that there are certain types of figuring out why things are important that tend to result in better knowledge structures. So that's not going to be something that's easy for you to do and figure out just through me explaining it just in one go. One tip that I might give that could potentially help if I just have a look at your notes really quickly here as well. Let me just flick to this. I think right now there's also like, what I'm seeing here is that you are connecting together a lot of information in this similar sort of situation as a previous one that I looked at where there are relationships between things for sure, but those relationships are not very prioritized. It's hard to follow what's going on. And so again, here it would be about saying, well, yes, I've got relationships and things that are important, but what are the sort of main, most important things to start with and how do those things connect together first before adding on a lot of the detail? What it looks like is happening is that you're adding on a lot of detail first and then you are finding the relationships and connecting them. And what tells me about that is that some of these arrows are like very, very weird. They're like reaching across the page and they're crossing over each other. And it just makes me think like, if you knew that these things were going to be related to each other and that they were important, and this relationship itself is important to represent, you would not put it on the page where it is because otherwise it makes no sense because clearly these arrows are going to be like winding and then crossing over each other. So what that tells me is that the relationships and what relationship is most important was thought about after the information was put down rather than before. So that's one thing that will make a big difference is before going into the details, getting a basic understanding of how you're going to structure the information based on what you think is related to what and how it's important. Another quick tip that I can give you here is to actually start anchoring your concepts with bigger keywords and groups. So right now you've sort of circled the information here and there to represent that it's kind of like one group. Instead of doing that, actually figure out like what is it that it is talking about. Give it like a keyword. It could be something very, just like Layman's terminology doesn't have to be technical, but it's something that you can kind of anchor onto and say like, okay, rather than like this group of concepts, you can say it's like this versus this and that relates to this and that causes this. Like it can be very clear and it's going to help you to frame it more clearly. So that's, that's probably two things. Anchor your concepts with some keywords that you and terms that you create. And then the second thing is to swap over in terms of don't think about the relationships after you've put everything on the page. Think about the relationships and how you're going to structure it before you put it on the page and then add the detail afterwards. If that's really difficult for you, add all the information on the page first. Then you can add the arrows, but afterwards definitely clean it up and then rearrange and restructure it. It's best if you're able to do it without having that step because that creates additional time requirements and is less necessary. But it depends on your level of higher order thinking and your deep processing ability. If your deep processing ability is, you know, like, if it's difficult for you to use this kind of technique straight off the bat, you know, you don't want to just struggle needlessly. You can start with having the information, then cleaning it up, and then once you get better and better and better at the cleaning up process, you'll find that naturally you. It just starts becoming cleaner the very first time you put it on paper. And you can start transitioning towards getting to the point where you're just thinking about the relationships first, structuring it, and then you add the detail on afterwards so it's clean and organized to begin with. So that's the idea of activating higher order thinking skills at a very early stage of learning, rather than trying to ramp up to that point at a later stage. Okay. All right, thank you for that. I guess another problem I have, I guess it's probably my own fault, but I'm not really sure how to go about covering a subject like mathematics. I'm not really sure how I should attack it. So try to use the same approach. Try to use the same approach first. And you'll note the thing with maths is that maths is taught in a certain way, and that makes it seem like it should be learned that way. But actually, one very quick thing that I'll give you a tip for, and this is something that, like a lot of the, like the top math professors in the world, they recommend and advocate and they push people to learn math this way. But it's not mainstream, is when you're first learning maths, learn it without any numbers or anything. Just learn it in pure English and just words. Understand maths in terms of the words. First. Create a concept map exactly how you would something like anatomy or physiology or chemistry or physics or whatever, like, learn it the same way that you would learn like that. But start with just the words, the concepts, the purpose, the function, and then map out that as well. And that's going to give more relevance to the equations, the formulas, and the proofs and the structures. And when you see how and why it's relevant, it's going to make it much easier for you to use that information and problem solving, because now you know the approach to it. Sometimes you get a question and you think, I don't even know how to start answering this. And that indicates that there's an issue with the approach. The easy part about maths is being able to plug in the formula and solve it. You know, expanding the bracket, memorizing a rule. That's the easy part of math. The hard part of math is being strategic, understanding how to approach something, understanding the concepts that go on behind it, instead of kind of almost like randomly guessing, like, will it fit this? Can I use this? Do I do this? And then, like, maybe I'll chain it onto this. And getting that type of understanding is more about a good conceptual flow. So it's the same process that I've just talked about. It's just that you can apply it to maths and it's actually not too hard to do it either. Give it a go, and then you'll probably start seeing that it actually helps to make math make math make more sense. And again, this is one of those things that a lot of the, like, I think there's even, I can't remember if there's a TED talk or there's some kind of speech. Anyway, it's given by this very, like, well regarded, like, maths professor. And one of the things that he always pitches is, like, when you're learning maths, you should not be thinking about the numbers and the formulas and things until you already have a very good understanding of in English what it is that you're learning. So try to focus on that. Thank you. I think, actually that's the roots of my problems. I think I'll use that. Nice. I think that's pretty much all I struggle with. Nice. Awesome. Thanks, Ty. We'll move on to the next person, which is Cynthia. Now, we were originally going to run the session for an hour, but there's just heaps more to cover. And I mean, I think it's fair to make sure that we do cover everything. So I'm just going to keep going, basically, and I'm just going to hope that the stream doesn't just automatically end, which I'm sure it probably won't, but. Yeah. So the next person we will flick to here is Cynthia. So, Cynthia, if you can just explain what it is that you're particularly struggling with, and we'll try to go a little bit quicker, though. Okay? So I feel like at the moment I'm struggling with, like, maintaining my knowledge and I feel like I'm really, really, really scared of, like, losing information. So I started off with high school. I was doing the IGCC, and then I moved to do the International Baccalaureate diploma program. And my methods were that awesome I was, like, average, doing linear notes like everyone else and revising with best papers and stuff like that. And when I was doing the IB, I found out about flashcards. So I started using Anki, and this year, I was going to move on to use remnote. However, that's when I found your channel. And I started getting interested in mind maps and making sure that I was encoding information better. And I did my first mind map, and it was the one that I shared, and it was really hard, and I could relate to everything that was mentioned in your videos. Like, it was going to feel uncomfortable. So I was like, I knew that it was going to happen, but at the same time, I didn't know how relevant my connections were, and I felt like I was always going back and forth with the information, and I. It was. It felt more like copy and pasting because I was so scared. Like, is the. Am I losing these details? What if I don't remember this? Because, again, at this level, and specifically for marketing, which is the subject that I did the mind map for, the teacher always requires that we give the same definitions as she does and stuff like that. So there's four things that I want to talk about with, with regards to that. The first thing. Okay. The fact that you found it difficult to do this, right? To create this mind map. There. There are a few things that you said there. Some of them are good. Some of them make me think that you kind of need to bring it up a level. The first thing was that you said it was difficult, and you were going back and forth a lot in terms of going, you know, going through information, forgetting the information, like. Yeah, like, my cognitive load was. It felt really low, like I would read something, and I wasn't sure if I really understood it or. Yeah, so that. Yeah, so that's actually a good thing. That's actually a good thing, because it tells me that you're holding yourself to a higher standard of thinking, and so you're not just, like, reading it and saying, yep, that's fine. Yep, yep, yep. Because think about it normally. Like, normally you may just read it and just write notes, and that's it. And that's it. Like, you're not even thinking. It's difficult. You're not even thinking, do I truly understand it or not? Because you don't even care whether you truly understand it or not, right? When we're trying to do a technique like this, it means it forces us to think about it to a higher level, and so we start recognizing that there are gaps in our knowledge, and we're not thinking about it as deeply. So that's actually a good thing. So it should feel fairly difficult to do this, especially for the first time. But the part that made me worried was that you then said you felt like you're just doing a lot of copy pasting of things. Yes. So what's probably happening there is that you were doing this. You were going back and forth. You were thinking, do I really get it? Does this make sense? And that feeling was uncomfortable. And when it became uncomfortable, you may have then reverted to an easier way out by then. Just copy pasting information, which makes it feel easier, but it stops making you think at that level of depth, that's potentially something that can happen. So the copy pasting part is not necessarily. That's not something that we should feel. When I look at your actual work that you've submitted, I can see that there's a lot of very good things about this. Like there is a nonlinear aspect. It's actually got a fairly good frame. And I really liked how you framed it in terms of what, how and who. And then that kind of funnels down through, like, that actually feels like it makes a lot of sense. So the thinking that goes on behind creating that frame, that is great. You want to keep doing that more and more and more. At this stage, I'm actually going to say that for your current skill level and the fact that you've just started this and it's a relatively new process, I think you should just keep going on. I'm not going to really even give you any tips about how you can improve what you've got right now, because I think what's important is that you just get more experience and you get more confidence in this method of thinking, and then that becomes easier and easier. You can take it to the next step once you're able to do this pretty comfortably. But just make. Just remember that back and forth thinking, does this make sense? Does this work? Does it fit together? Should I put it like this? Should I put it like that? That is exactly what you want to be doing. That is the type of stuff that, you know, helps a lot. Which brings me to the second point. You're afraid of losing out information and forgetting things. Why do you forget information in the first place? Fundamentally, what is the reason why you would forget information? Because just having it in your notes doesn't make a difference. Right. Whether it's in your notes or not in your notes, that's not important. What's important is that it's in your brain. So from your brain's point of view, what dictates whether something is going to stay or whether it's going to be expelled and forgotten? I would say how relevant it is and how critically I was thinking about that information at the moment, because I actually found that with this mind map that I did, it was a bit easier to remember it, because, like, as I mentioned in the form, I was trying to connect, like the who, the what, and the how we with some concepts that I had learned in economics. So since the subjects had those similarities, it was, like, a bit easier to think about it. Yeah, I feel like it's easier to forget, like, when you just don't know, how can I think of this? Like, exactly. It's easy to forget it. Yeah, exactly. It's easier to forget it if you don't know how to think about it. And that how to think about it is essentially, we're talking about, like, a structure. It's like a method. It's like a overall perspective on something. And when we know how to think about it, what it means is that there is some level of relevance there. Something feels relevant because we know how to think about it, whereas something feels irrelevant if we don't know how to think about it. So, for example, you're studying marketing. So I'm going to presume you don't have much information, like much knowledge in terms of pharmacodynamics or medicine. Is that an accurate assumption? Okay, so I've got these eye drops next to me, which are expired years, and I really shouldn't be using them. But, you know, this is naphazoline. Naphazoline, 0.25 mgs per milliliter. Okay. With fenramin malate, which is just a preservative, is that relevant for you? Do you know how to think about that? No. No. Right. So that's a type of information that would just be like, I don't know how to think about that because it doesn't feel relevant. It's not connected to anything. And so what. What are these eye drops made of? What's the ingredient in them? I literally forgot. Yeah. It's been seconds since I told you. Right. Methazoline, 0.25 milligrams per milliliter. Right. So if when I tell you this, you know that type of information. If I told you, I want you to remember that. Right. This is naphazole, 25 milligrams ML. Right. Then in your mind, what you'll be thinking is because you don't know how to think about it. You're going to go into the frame of, okay, I'm going to remember it. Naphazole 25 mixed per milliliter. Naphazole 2.25 mixed per mill. And you're going to start repeating that and you're going to get the feeling like I'm going to need to just do this again and again and again because I do not know how to think about it. I can feel it slipping away. Right. That is a sign that it's not relevant, it's not connected. So we need to change that. A lot of people get that feeling and they decide, I'm just going to put it into my notes and just repeat it and smash through it. But that's not the way that, you know, it should be approached, is that when that feeling is go up a level. Right. And we need to make it. Sorry, I think I'm just lagging here a bit. Just wait till this lack finishes. Yes. Okay. I'm gonna hope that it's working now. I believe it's working. It is. Cool. All right, perfect. Great. Sorry. Yeah. I didn't realize how much power it draws out. This is like a fully charged MacBook pro that's meant to go like six, 7 hours. And then I just drained the battery in the last 50, 55 minutes. Okay, so what was I talking about just now? Yeah. So the idea here is that you're going to forget information if it's not relevant. Okay. So if you don't know how to think about it, if it's. If it's not relevant, if it's not connected to anything, then you're going to be much more likely to forget the information. Right. So losing information, you have to understand, is more about that feeling of isolation. So what should. Not that I want you to, like, feel anxious about studying, but if you're going to feel anxious about something, you should feel anxious about taking down information in isolation. Okay. I feel like that was the problem that I was doing for so long because I got so used to Anki and I was even willing to move to remnote and was just like, this concept. Like, everything that I was finding, I would put it into a flashcard. So it was like constantly trying to memorize stuff until I found your channel. And I was like, this is challenging. Like, I really want to see what he has to say about it. And I agree a lot of stuff, but, yeah, that's where the problem starts. Yeah. So it's always going to be a losing battle. Like, if everything you're learning. You're always at risk of forgetting very quickly. That's a losing battle. You're never really going to win that against the clock because every single year, like, everything you're learning, it's going to build, like, knowledge builds, right? And if every future thing you learn relies on you knowing something you learned in the past, that means that, you know, like, the amount you need to hold on to is not increasing just by, like one year. By one year, by one year, every year it's adding on, like that year plus the year before, and then the next year it's like that year plus the years before that. So every year, the amount you need to know is like, you know, doubling or tripling or quadrupling. So if your rate of forgetting is very high, it's just mathematically unscalable and unsustainable. It just logically does not make sense to build a system that's based on that. So I want you to start that feeling of, like, it's not making sense, like it's irrelevant. I don't understand, like, what it is. I'm gonna have to repeat it. Okay. What's the ingredient in these eye drops? 2.5 ML. Is it? You are almost. It's naphazoline .0 point. It's 0.25 mb ML. Yeah. So again, see, like, it's just a single piece of detail, single fact. And it's been like a few minutes since we introduced it. And that was the third time, well, the fourth time that I repeated that. And again, because there isn't that relevance, we're not going to be able to hold on to that information. So it's meaningless to just try through repetition to hold on to that. What's going to be more important is for us to think about it in a way that is going to allow us to make it more relevant. So if I then tell you that, well, this eyedropper is called NAFcON. It's like the name of the eyedrop, it's called NAfcON. Okay? See it on the webcam here? And it's called NAFCON because of the fact that it contains naphtha zolene, okay? And it's 0.25 milligrams per mil. So if it was, as you said, 2.5 milligrams per milliliter, that would cause some, you know, pretty serious issues. I think that would probably, like, constrict, like, the blood vessels in your eyes, like a dangerous level. You know, you may, I'm not actually sure what the side effect of that would be, but it will probably be, number one, very painful, and it could cause some kind of, like, you know, oxygen deprivation injury to a part of your eye. So, you know, it's definitely not 2.5. It's less than one, 0.25. Okay. So again, it's just a little bit more information here, but I'm creating a little bit more relevance. Right. In terms of what it is. Now, this is an eye drop for allergies, and the reason it's good for allergies is because naphazoline has a good, like, anti allergic effect. Okay. So now we have a context for, like, what these eye drops are like, why they're useful. You know, the fact that it's called NAFCON, it's going to help us remember the Naf zoline, the fact that, you know, more than 1 mg is going to be more dangerous. So it's going to help us remember some of this information. Right. But this needs to be applied across the board for the entire topic. So there were four things that I wanted to say. Right. The first thing was that what you're doing right now, in terms of this mind map and stuff, that's actually looking like a good start. You're doing back and forth thinking, that's good. You know, keep it up. The second thing, you're feeling like you're going to forget things and you're going to lose detail and lose information. Truly losing information means learning it in isolation. Even if it's down on your notes, even if you've got it down, if it's not integrated, that's going to be lost. And that's where you need to start feeling uncomfortable with. The true discomfort and anxiety needs to come from the fact this is isolated. And that concerns me. Right. A big reason why a lot of people don't adopt these more integrated learning strategies is because they start realizing that everything they're learning is isolated, and that makes them very anxious. So they just kind of close their eyes and just, they imagine that they never learn about that. And then so they think like, oh, there's no problems. There are no problems. There's nothing wrong with isolated information. And eventually they're just going to struggle. When they get into the higher levels or even now, they're going to struggle. They're going to have to sink in a lot of time, and eventually they will realize that that's not an effective way to learn. It's just a matter of what they sacrificed to learn that lesson. So it's good that you were able to learn that proactively. The third thing that I want to say is that you can always learn the bulk of the material through an integrated format first. And if there are definitions and terminology that you need to retrieve a very specific way you can put those things on something like flashcards, you can use like anky or remnote or whatever, you want to learn that information. So again, I'm not saying that flashcards are an inherently, like, evil thing. It's a necessary part of a fully fleshed study system. What's important is how we are using it and what purpose it's achieving. So we need to understand it in that context. We don't want to have, like, hundreds or thousands of flashcards on terminology, but it's just the ones that we feel we're gonna forget, the ones that we feel we're going to, you know, it feels less integrated the more isolated pieces of information that we can't seem to hold on to. That's the type of stuff that needs to be in flashcards, because if it, some things are going to end up isolated, you can't really avoid it in real life. Studying when something is isolated, what are you going to do about it? You have to learn it in a way that allows you to have that repetition. And so flashcards will be relevant and necessary for that. And then the final thing that I want to mention is that the way that you need to retrieve the information in an assessment or something like that, there are multiple ways of hitting that without necessarily memorizing or studying it in exactly that way. For example, there could be a definition that needs to be repeated in a very certain way. So you could ask yourself, like, why is it that it needs to be in that particular way? Like, what if I missed this word? What's the significance of missing that word? So you could actually revise and look at material in such a way that says, well, here's the definition. It's composed of, like, these different components. Why are these components necessary? Like, why do I need this word that's here? Not always, but a lot of the time, that actually clues you into another concept that that's related to. Okay, yeah. And actually that can actually, yeah. Help build your knowledge map. So sort of like breaking down that definition and understanding why that specific word is there and why it makes, like, the whole definition overall, like, significant. Yes, correct. Exactly. And that can be part of how you form your mind map, for example. And so now you don't have to memorize that definition because you're definitely not going to miss this part because if you missed that part, you'd miss this whole connection and, you know, all of this sort of stuff, right? And so that wouldn't, you know, that, for example, just like, wouldn't make sense. Like, for example, if you sort of a definition for like the market, right? And you're memorizing, let's say that the definition you have is actual and potential buyers of products or services. Well, if you think about that, like, why do you need actual and potential? Like, what's the significance of that? Because I guess, like actual would be like cash flow and then revenue of the market. And then potential are also the people that are like, you know, could be converted into that and there would be like the leads, that's the people that, like, marketing is trying to reach out to. And then actual are the ones that are kind of being reached in. And there's going to be some kind of cycle there where like, the money generated from actual buyers allows you to reach more potential buyers. And why do you need products and services? Well, because of the fact that not everything is a product and not everything is a service. So if you think about it like that way, and let's say that your entire structure actually represents that, you have the idea of like an actual market versus like a potential market. And you've got the idea that like actual market is driving the funds to reach a potential market and that potential market is larger and they're accessing potentially services or products. When you think about the definition of that, you're definitely not going to miss all of those components. And often, even when it does come to, like, marking rubrics, what they're looking for is that you're covering the particular concepts and keywords, but it doesn't always have to be in that exact order, as long as you get the idea across, especially in university and beyond. So I think you're on the right track. I just think there's a few things that we can optimize here and there, and there is kind of just a mindset. And over time you will realize that integrated knowledge just performs so much better. And then you'll start getting more concerned about whenever you're learning something in isolation. Okay. Okay. All right, thank you. Cool. Thanks. And we'll move on to the next person who is Khalik. So to put into context, my study, I mean, my school system is where you will learn a concept on the day itself and you have a pre study, but then when you have the concept on that day itself, you need to apply the concept to a problem, and then you have a post study, then I'll try to make it into a mind map. But whenever it comes to the exams and it's like, in a span of two months, I'll forget. I'll forget, like, maybe 50% of it. And now I want to ask, how do I fill in that gap? Okay, so again, like I mentioned before, is that the idea of forgetting something is a symptom. Don't think about forgetting something as an outcome. The forgetting is a symptom that there is something that's underneath that that hasn't been done properly. So we don't want to get to the point where we're saying we forgot something. Therefore we do an additional thing to stop ourselves from, like, to, like, re remember it. It's better to just not have forgotten it in the first place. Right. So 50%. 50% is actually a fairly like, it's actually above average. Like, most people will forget 50% after one week. So if you're forgetting 50% by the time of the exam, that usually means that, you know, there's probably a higher level of deep processing that's kind of naturally going on under the surface. When I'm looking at your notes, I can see again what I talked about before is that you do have relationships, but the relationships don't seem to be prioritized. It doesn't seem like there's a clear flow of, like, what is the most important, and how has that been emphasized? I can see that especially well in this mind map that you've got about internal and external net, and you've got lots of relationships, but it hasn't been very clearly prioritized. And I'm not sure exactly what the most important ideas are. It's hard to follow it just straight off the bat at a glance. There's just sort of lots of things going on here, and I can see that across the board. So for you, I would actually be giving you the exact same advice I gave a few submissions ago. I can't remember whose work it was. Mine. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. I would be strongly recommending to do the exact same thing where you are basically just isolating out what the main, most important ideas are. Getting rid of the central theme, which is what you're doing with your mind maps and some of the cases as well, not all the time. You've got this one here that's written on looks like onenote where you've got no central theme. You've just got the arrows coming out from it. It's not really a good idea necessarily to do it through something like onenote, because it is a little bit restrictive in terms of how you can frame things out, and it has a tendency of making you more linear because it's just so easy to write these full sentences and everything, you don't see the impact that linear note taking is having on you quite as much. So removing the central theme, just creating a flow of ideas with the main groups of ideas, figuring out what those main groups of ideas are and giving it more of a purpose and a connection to a bigger picture that's going to allow the information to be more relevant overall. The problem right now is that there are relationships, so, you know, things are related to each other, but those relationships overall don't serve a higher purpose. There's no big picture understanding and therefore ultimately it's still somewhat irrelevant. So it's a little bit better than just purely in isolation, but it's still ultimately a little irrelevant and so it's going to be more likelihood that you're going to forget it. So what we need to do is change it and increase the relevance through prioritizing our relationships and our groups to a higher level. Does it make sense? Yeah. Yeah. Any questions about that? So when you say I should create a flow, what do you mean by that? So when you think about a topic, first of all, I wouldn't do it looks like right now what you're doing is like lecture by lecture. I wouldn't do a lecture by lecture. I would do it based on, like, topic by topic. Because there are going to be important relationships and groups and concepts within between the lectures that might help you understand the topic overall more easily. Whereas if you do a purely lecture by lecture, you're actually going to cut off a lot of that and it's going to make it artificially isolated, when actually it may be better to do it all in one go. So do it topic by topic and across the topic, think what are the three to five main ideas, the most important ones, and how do they relate to each other? And be very clear about that and build a very clear structure and a scaffold to build things off, and then start adding detail on top of that and keep it relatively clean. Start with that and give that a go. As you do that, you will start having other issues as well in terms of exactly how to structure it and what type of structure is better and what type of structure is not as good and then how to make it more time efficient. These are all things that require a bit of practice and a little bit more feedback and back and forth, it's going to be hard for me to tell you in advance how to avoid the problems because there's, like, 100 problems you could have, and I can't tell you how to avoid 100 problems, but you may only have three or four problems in real life if you actually gave it a go. So this is the reason why feedback is going to be more important. So I would just start with that and then just see how that goes and then reflect on that process and try to optimize that. Cool. All right, let's move on to the next person. Kevin. Hi. Can you hear me? Yep. Okay. So I have problems studying histology and anatomy because I think these subjects are more introduced based. Yeah. So when I pre study, you said that pre study, we have to study topic wise, and we have to follow the two forward rule, like you mentioned earlier. Yep. When I study the digestive system, they're just habit. It's just, you know, running through, like, from the oral cavity all the way down. Yeah. And introducing all the organs. So I can't really find the main ideas. Yeah. There's too much organs, and each of them, the topic dives very deep into the details. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. And it's pretty hard to find the flow because I watched some of. Some of your videos. You said that the flow means that maybe a plus B contributes to c, and without c, you guys forget D. Yeah. Histology and anatomy doesn't really have that flow, so I can't really find that. Okay. So there's a couple of things to mention. Number one, digestive is a topic that does have a lot more, sort of memorization aspects to it. However, there are still a lot of ways that we can tackle this that make it easier. I'm having a look at. I had a. You know, I'm sort of looking at the work and the thing that you've sent through. And there's. There are kind of two main things that I want to comment on here, but first of all is the concept of how we're creating these chunks and these groups. So what you've done is that you've started with digestive, and you've done, like, oral cavity going down, like, chronologically, almost, like, sequentially in the pattern. Right. Going down to, like, the full GI system. So when we think about the knowledge that we need to obtain about this topic, we need to know about the features of it, we need to know about the function of it. We need to know about macroscopic gross anatomy features. We need to know about the histology. We might even need to know about specific enzymes at certain different levels and how that interacts with things. We need to know about the vascular supply, things like that. There's so many different things we need to know about the topic. Overall. The way that we group information is a very. Is a very. Is a very powerful way of communicating and encoding information and categorizing information. You should always try to find the way of grouping and creating a flow of information that allows you to remember the more dense, more complex part of the information that gives it more purpose. So there's two things here, right? Like, first of all, are you likely to forget the order in which the digestive system works? It's just probably not like you're. You're unlikely to get to a point where you're like, what comes first, the oral cavity or the stomach? That's just not a problem that you're going to have. Which means that arranging the structure in this way, it doesn't offer any real learning advantage in terms of helping you understand it, because the thing that it's helping you understand is that it follows this order, but that order is already something that you wouldn't have forgotten anyway, right? So here are some other ways that you could have potentially grouped this, and I want you to think about this. If you were to group them in these other ways, think about how it would fundamentally change how it is connected and the shape it would have. Because right now, it has this very vertical shape, very like, step by step, kind of just down the page, like, in this point, there are these structures and they have these features, and blah, blah, blah. And at this point, they have these features, and it looks like this. That's kind of how your entire set of notes is arranged. Right now. I want you to think about how different it would be if instead of doing it that way, we arranged it like this. We did it based on general function. So what parts of the system contribute to the overall act of, for example, like, molecule breakdown versus what contributes to, like, absorption or secretion? What parts are. Or you could do it based on, like, a particular type of, like, lining that it has. What parts of the system have a certain type of histological lining, which probably reflects the kind of conditions and functions that it has as well. Or you could think about it in terms of how would you actually use this information in a clinical setting? So you could do it based on a, you know, if someone presents to you with pain in the, in the sternum versus in the throat versus down, like, more near the abdomen. Or you could do it based on if someone has a certain type of disease. So if you were to rearrange the groups so that it seems more purposeful in that way, the purpose of its function or how the histology relates to its overall function or the function in terms of, like, you know, if that function goes wrong in the case of some kind of disease or malformation or how would. How you would use this understanding of anatomy to examine a patient or think about a history or a problem or a clinical context, then this flow that you've got would be rearranged. Information wouldn't be, you know, arranged in the same way you would, you know, potentially, like, reverse some of the groups that you've got, and some of the more difficult to remember information that could be included in the way that you're fundamentally grouped it, rather than that right now, which is kind of all at the leaves of this tree, where that remains fairly isolated and not connected, does that make sense? Well, I tried organizing it by function, but I think, like histology, it's just mainly focused on how the layers. Like, there are four layers of the stomach, and each part of the stomach has different glands, and when we zoom in, it has different cells. It's. So I don't think that these things. Maybe I can find a relationship. No, you can't. You can. So, for example, let's take that example of, like, the stomach having four layers of different types of muscles and then different cell structures and things like that, right? So if we were to take that example, why is it that the muscle that the stomach has, like, four different layers of muscle? Well, because. Because it has to digest food and different directions. Yeah. Yeah. So it's because it needs to have a certain type of contractile motion, right? It needs to have a type of contraction that is, you know, relatively, like, you know, forceful. It needs to have a, you know, in multiple directions. It needs to be able to have a, like, a wall that is thick enough as well to be able to actually support, like, all the food and the contents that are in that. It has to be, you know, it has to be able to stretch. Right. So if we think about what are the functions that. That is contributing to, then that could be the function of, for example, like, food breakdown. So you could have, like, food breakdown, and you could have it in terms of, like, macroscopic versus microscopic food breakdown. And then the macroscopic, you'd have, like, your teeth and all the other sort of things. And then in the in the microscopic, you could have things in terms of, like, the actual acid breaking it down, and, like, she started to break the bonds and react to some of those things. Uh, and then you could have part of the muscle as being something in between as, like, filling that spectrum, you know, helping it go from the macroscopic to the microscopic as well. So if you were to do it by functions, you would be able to say, this is the function that needs to be attained, and these are the elements within the relevant organ structures that are achieving that function. Right? So you would write, and because of the fact that it just so happens that for something like the digestive system, different functions also follow a certain chronology. Like, you don't go from, like, macroscopic to microscopic and then, like, back to macroscopic food breakdown, like, in the intestines, for example. You know, it does follow the idea of, like, you know, food breakdown going to, like, you know, absorption and then excretion. So following that pathway, you can then link that to different parts of the anatomy or the histology that contribute to that function. You could even break it down even more. Right? You could say, like, you've got, like, food breakdown, and within food breakdown, you've got the idea of, like, protection versus, like, destruction. So protection would be, what are the features, histologically or macroscopically, that allow the structures of the digestive system to be protected versus what are the parts involved in food breakdown that allow for the actual destructive breakdown process? And then how does that change at the microscopic level? Protection versus destruction. So now we've got the idea of the fact that you've got, like, a stratified squamous epithelium in the upper levels being relevant because it's a protective mechanism for the macroscopic food breakdown process. And then you've got the ideas of, like, I don't know how if you've gone to dentition or anything like that, you know, you've got the idea of, you know, what are the components that are contributing to food breakdown and the destruction of it? And then you could even break it down even further. You know, you could go down in terms of, like, the destructive process. You could say, like, physical versus chemical, right? So you could have, like, the physical part being like, your teeth, and you can have the chemical part being like, your saliva and the enzymes in your saliva that help to chemically break down some of the food at an earlier stage. So you see how now you're learning it, but it's not grouped based on organ or, like, low anatomical location. You still have the same information, but now it's arranged based on, like, something that's a bit more purposeful, and that relies on the fact that you are unlikely to forget some parts of information because it seems very obvious. For example, you are not going to forget that saliva happens in the oral cavity. You're not going to think, like, saliva. Where does that happen again? Like, does it happen in your rectum? Like, you're going to. You're going to know it already to begin with. Right. You're not going to forget where teeth are. You're not going to forget that the pharynx comes after the oral cavity, so therefore, you don't have to even put that into your notes. You can just say, like, these are the structures and functions that happen for these particular functions. Right. So that means that you could relate a lot of the histology and a lot of the enzymes and the other specific processes and give it much more context, rather than kind of having it anatomically first, and then it eventually becoming almost irrelevant and then isolated at the end. Okay. Does that make sense? I have a. Yeah, yeah. I have another question, because if I dive into more detail information, it's very trivial and I have to learn it like rote learning. Just pure memorization. Yeah. For example, like, the stomach, the glands has. It's composed of five different cells, and each cells have their own function, but they're not really connected together. Are you sure? They're not connected? So that's a great example where that if you were to learn it and you were to group that information based on anatomy, then it would not be relevant, because the. Because each, for example, the types of cells that are in the stomach, they're going to be related to some kind of function. Right. So if I would like. It's been a long time since I've studied this, so I actually legit right now. I actually do not remember the different types of cells that are in the stomach. But even just thinking about it logically, the stomach produces acid. It's important for, like, the molecular level, microscopic breakdown of food so that it's ready for it to be absorbed. It's an acid. There's going to need to be something that provides protection. Right. There's going to be need. There's going to need to be something to protect it. There's going to be something that produces the acid. There's going to be something that produces the actual enzymes and things as well. Just based on that, I can think that there's going to be these different cell types, and that's directly related to the function of it. Again, in terms of microscopic food breakdown, I could then have broken that down into chemical breakdown in terms of acid versus enzymatic, and then protection. So destruction versus protection. I could use that same flow here again as well. And I could think, well, what are the cell types that are involved in protection? What are the cell types that are involved in the destruction? And then maybe there's something in between. Maybe there's a, there's a feedback loop. And I remember that actually there is a feedback loop. I just don't remember what the feedback loop is, but I remember there's some kind of feedback loop that happens somewhere, you know, so, you know, you could have that represented. Well, this stuff communicates with this stuff and you could create a loop there. So this is an example where the information may initially seem trivial if you see it from a certain angle. But if you were to change the way that you understand the whole structure of the information, that no longer becomes trivial and irrelevant. It becomes directly the very purpose of learning it in the first place. Okay, so if you flip the structures, you'll start seeing that a lot of trivial information starts becoming more relevant. And there will still be some things that even after you do that, you still think it still feels very trivial. You can put that stuff onto your flashcards and you can learn that through any other way. That's fine, but it should be the last resort. The trickiest part for you is going to be in really thinking of a different way to structure it, because you're going to be so used to thinking about it in one way. Do not make like assumptions and conclusions about how something, it can be learnt, purely because that is the way you are used to learning it. Right? Don't ever say that some information is isolated or trivial until you've gone through the whole process of trying to make it not isolated and trivial to begin with. You should only ever arrive at that conclusion after you have done all that process and realize there is truly no way that that seems, you know, like I can, I can relate it to a bigger purpose. And a check you can do to see if you've done it right is you can look at the information and you can say, this piece of information is completely irrelevant to me in every possible way. There's no way that I can use this information in real practice, for any real purpose. And in real, real life, I would probably only ever just need to look it up. Right. An example of information like that would be like a drug dose, drug doses are things that are like experimentally found, it in itself does not have relevance other than the fact that lab experiments found that this is the dose that you should use. That's an example of information that in itself is relatively trivial, but even that could be made more meaningful. Well, I don't know the exact number, but I know that when you use it to treat this disease, it has to be a higher dose, whereas if you use it for this disease, it has to be a lower dose. Like steroids, for example. You use a higher dose of steroids when the inflammatory process is more severe, but then you get more immunosuppressive effects. So you can use high dose steroids for immunosuppression, whereas you can use low dose steroids for inflammation where it doesn't have. We don't want to compromise the immune system. So even. Even if you don't remember the actual number, is it one or is it ten or is it 100? Is it milligrams or is it, like, picograms or nanograms? Even if you don't remember that, you can still at least have a relative sense of, you know, of where something is, even for something that seems completely irrelevant. Okay. Yeah. That makes more sense. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you, sessions. Cool. Give that a go. Good luck. All right, let's. Let's charge through. And then we've got the last few people. I'm really hoping that you're actually still here. And if you're not, I'm really, really sorry. Shweta. Hi. Can you hear me? Hey. Yep. Cool. So can you let us know about what your issue that you're struggling with is? So I have two questions. So, one is the syllabus I'm studying requires me to study for 12 hours for long periods of time. Okay. And why? Because. So our government was facing some problem, and they have. The exam, which was conducted every year is now being conducted in six months of span. Okay. So it's the case for everyone. But, like, I was never a good student in mbbs, and now I am starting everything fresh. And reading those 19 subjects is huge. Yeah. So. So I don't know. So I start really motivated, and I study for one day, two day, and third day. My. My brain just can't take them. I just can't read words. Okay? I can't look at those words. So I saw one of your videos where you talk about burnouts and you told about you should plan for the worst days. So how do you plan for the worst days? Yeah, there are a few things that we need to clear up here because it's not as clear cut. There's a bit more information here. So, for example, when you're feeling like you're kind of burning out and you're getting really tired after a few days, do you feel, is what you're feeling that you're getting overwhelmed with the amount of information? Is that what you're feeling? Or is it that you don't feel like you're getting overwhelmed, but you're just getting very tired? I didn't really deduce it, but whenever I, like, open my study material and I try to read, I just can't take information. I just can't process, like I was processing a few days before. Like, this topic would help me clinically in this way. Like, that is how I try to read because I'm not making notes in because I have such limited period of time to prepare for this huge exam. So I'm not able to do that after two days. So the point of reading passively, there's no point in that. So I. It feels like I should give up now, today. I shouldn't study. Okay. Sure. So I think what's important is that we are addressing the root cause of something like burnout is the outcome that occurs, you know, when lots of other things go wrong. And that's a complicated subject. Sorry to interrupt you. Consistency is what I mean is my question. Like, I study chapters and subjects one day and next day I don't. So it averages out to, like, if I studied 20 topics one day and I studied zero the next day, so I'm studying ten. Yeah. It doesn't mean. Yeah. Any tons. Yeah. So what's going to be very important is that because there is a high volume you need to get through, the method that you're using has to be making it easier for yourself. And I feel that right now there's parts of what you're doing that are good and it is helping with your learning, and then there are parts of the learning that are holding you back that are making it too difficult to carry that on. And that's why you're getting issues with your consistency. That's why you're getting more tired. And that's probably why over time, you're just going to completely stop because you're just not going to have any energy left and that's going to lead to things like burnout. So the first thing that I. This is reasonably complicated and I'm not going to be able to actually do a full dive on this because of the fact that there's actually a lot of things that I need to know, like, especially with regards to exactly how you're learning. But let me start with a few key questions. The first one is when you are learning information you're taught, you mentioned that you think about how it can be related to things and how you can find a purpose to it. And you know why you need to know it. Right. You said that that's a process you do, and you apply this method of thinking, like, pretty regularly in terms of everything you're learning. I try to Matlab on a good day. On a good day, you try to. Yeah, mostly I do that. Mostly? Yeah. Okay. So that's, that's good. The second thing, when you've thought about that, what do you, what are you doing with that knowledge? Like, what do you do with that? Do you write some notes on it? Like, how after you've thought about it, what happens? So the, like, I was preparing adrenergics and I prepared what is the function of all the adrenergic receptors? And now when I'm well versed with what those receptors can do, now, when I read through the study material, everything is now related. Now, I don't need to search for keyboard this. But what do you, I mean, physically, do you write some notes about that afterwards or what exactly? It seems impossible to even pick up my pen. I feel so anxious that I lose all the time. And creating notes does not seem like a good. So right now, you do all this thinking, and that knowledge is just purely mental. You're saying it's just in your head? It's just in your head, and then you're reading, and it's just in your head. You're not actually writing any notes or anything about that, is that right? No. Yeah. Okay. So it's not gonna be frankly, like, I don't think it's possible to tackle a large volume of information without writing any notes because good note taking is meant to facilitate the cognitive process, and it needs to be making it easier for you to do this type of thinking. I think the problem is that you're reaching cognitive overload because there are so many things that you're trying to tackle all at once. There are so many things going along, and all of those things interact with each other, and your brain has to keep track of all of those interactions and relationships. And then every time you're reading, you're adding more things to it. So that's, that's going to be impossible to overload. That's going to be impossible to keep under control. Under control, you're going to become overloaded inevitably. I mean, I'm surprised you can go even a whole day without getting overload. You know, overloaded. Realistically, probably you're going to be losing out on a lot of information that you, that you studied in the earlier half of the day. And probably your focus. I would expect if you're doing that, your focus would start to climb even after the first couple of hours in the day. So it's frankly amazing that you're able to go like a whole day even doing this. I do. I study in chunks, like 2 hours, then I usually take a break. Even then, though, like even then in the next chunk of study, I would have expected that your actual quality would have gone down a bit. But look, anyway, we need to actually start documenting some of those thoughts. So it's good that you're thinking about it and it's good that you're able to spend a long time thinking about it before writing notes. So that's good. What we want to do is two things. First of all is we need to start grouping together the ideas and the patterns. So for example, like if you're talking about adrenergic receptors and you're learning about all the different types of receptors and their functions and things, that's good to learn that. But if you're learning that and then that's where it stops, then that's going to be very hard to hold onto. So when you learn about the functions of the receptors and then you learn about, let's say something else as well later on, like maybe you learn a little bit more about kind of the overall, like neuroendocrine system or something else. You want to start making it so that each kind of, each web of knowledge comes together and is consolidated. This is what we call chunking is that you've said, okay, here are the different types of receptors and then here are the functions. And instead of just memorizing them, you're trying to think how do they relate to each other and things like that. That's very, very good. But once you do that, that becomes kind of some knowledge that you have. And then when you read something else, you need to then integrate that. But if you just purely integrate it as it is, that it just increases the number of connections with each new thing. And then this starts becoming a massive web of relationships and ideas and concepts that are all related to each other and it's going to be too much to hold onto. So every now and then you need to take what you've got and then simplify it and condense it down. Reduce the number of relationships, reduce the number and then start grouping it. So instead of having 40 ideas with 300 relationships, you've got seven ideas with four key relationships. With each seven of each one of those having three sub ideas that are connected to each other and then having two sub ideas that are connected to each other that are connected. So we're creating a hierarchy of relationships and connections. So what I'd recommend for you is something very simple like this. Every 15 minutes, write down and document how you're thinking about things. Do a little mind map. Okay, here's how I'm thinking about things. Here are the relationships. Okay? And then after every 15 minutes, add to it and then simplify. So every time you add something new, simplify it. Add simplify, add, simplify. So when you're adding information, that's easy. Here are the relationships and then here is how it relates. And here's where I'm going to put the concepts. The simplifying is the hard part because the simplifying, you have to look at what you've got and you have to think, how can I make it so that I don't have to have this much on here? Is there a way that I can think about it that makes it more obvious? Is there a way that I can think about it that reduces the need for me to just hold on to all this information? Maybe if I merge this, this and this together, that will allow me to group it under something else. Maybe all of these things, I've got them as separate, but maybe they're all, they're all kind of related to each other and serving a similar purpose. So maybe I could group them under that purpose. Right? So we're thinking about how can we make it purposeful. We're thinking about those contexts, all the thoughts that you're doing, but I want you to do it almost a second time. The first time you do it is on the base information you're reading to form that web. The second time you do it is when you're looking at the web you've already formed and you're trying to do it again on top of that. How can I make it even simpler and even clearer to do that? So that's something that you're going to need and that's going to help to just relieve a lot of that cognitive burden. Doing it purely mentally is not going to be an effective way. It's not sustainable whatsoever. My second question is related to it, it is about the system I'm following for this exam. And after this long stream, it feels like it's based on purely on anxiety. So I had six months. So initially I thought we would be given twelve months or nine months or so, but we were given six months, so I had divided it by then. I'll do first to the first one third of the time I'll solve all the questions because those questions come with a very good explanation. I thought I would be able to do that because I've completed my mbbs and, and I'll do because those are like clinical scenarios. Then I. The next two third of the time I'll go back to the notes and revise all my notes. And the last third I do all the video lectures. No. So yeah, don't do it that way because that's going to create a lot of repetition and then it's going to frame information in a way that's going to be overloading to begin with. So I wouldn't do it that way. I would do it based on topic by topic. So take one big topic and then go through to get to a point where you've consolidated and simplified it for that topic, and then goes through to do the questions based on that and then use that to find where there are gaps in your knowledge and where you can simplify it more or where you can go deeper, where you can add additional parts to it. And then, and so basically what that means is that you're using like your video lessons and your textbook or whatever it is to begin with. You're saying that they've got like really good explanations for those answers. I wouldn't, I wouldn't, I wouldn't start by doing that. You can still use them in an effective way. And the way that you can use great explanations for, like, practice questions in a good way is start by building that overall simplified schema and that framework first. So get to the point where you feel like you've got a pretty good understanding of how things fit together, but you're not at the point where you are like completely confident and you're also not really sure about all the little details and the things that you can fit in there. Once you're at that point, and that will make you sort of like 70% confident, you're like, I feel pretty good about it. It seems pretty simple. I can see how it all relates together. I know the main concepts and I know how they generally work, but I'm a little unclear about some of the details here and there. I'm not confident to explain, you know, in depth some of these parts of it, and I don't remember a lot of these details. If you get to that point and then you do these questions, then you're going to be able to leverage it a lot more. You don't want the question just to be teaching you something that is. That is like very basic. Very basic. Right. You want the questions to be teaching you something that is leveraging off of the question you just asked. Right. So the question is prompting you on something. It's challenging you to think in a certain way. So I'm just hearing a little bit of echo and feedback. Maybe that's just coming from my own. That's okay. Yep. So the question may be asking you about something challenging you in one way, and then after it's challenging you in that one way, you will read the explanation about it that's going to be bigger than that. So instead of just relying on the explanation to just to learn whatever the explanation is teaching you, you want the explanation to be filling in the gaps of what you had already thought and hypothesized, and you want to be comparing that to the schema you have already created. If you don't have that schema that's already created reasonably well, then it's going to be more time consuming and it's going to be more isolated and it's going to need more questions and more repetition to build that schema based on just the explanation given in that question, because that explanation is going to be addressing just the concepts related in that particular question. So you're going to form like a small schema here, and you're going to do another question, and you're going to form another small schema here, and you're going to do another one and form another small schema here. But you're already being overloaded with all these different relationships and things going on all over the place to begin with. So it's just going to add to the complexity, and so it's not going to make it overall easier. It's going to add to the overwhelm instead. You want to have a basic good idea of it, test yourself at each of these points. Sometimes you do well, sometimes you don't do so well. And when you read the explanations now, you're going to be able to go deeper in a certain point, but instead of it forming an isolated little web, it's going to strengthen it, it's going to deepen it, it's going to make it a little bit more solid. So it's strengthening what is already there and deepening it rather than building something from scratch, which is going to just add to more things that are going to overwhelm you because it's just too many things to track. Because eventually, after you do that, you're going to have to go through and consolidate it all anyway. And then once you've consolidated it, you need to test it, but now you don't have anything to test it on because you've already gone through all of your questions, right. So that's not an efficient way of doing it. And if you do your video lessons, the video lessons are not really testing it either because it's a lot more, it's much easier to be passive going through it that way. And it requires more effort to be engaged in testing yourself through video lessons. When you've got questions that you could use with explanations that would test it for you, does that make sense? Yeah. And when you say you should do topic wise, so we have the same topic, like digestive system. We find it in physio, then pharmaco, then medicine. So do you recommend I follow digestive system from physio to medicine or I do isolated subjects or I do backwards from medicine to physio? That's a good question. I would start with the whatever you feel like makes sense to you and that, and start with the one that feels a little bit easier because it's all going to be related in some way to each other, like, so starting with the area that you feel a little stronger in that makes a bit more sense for you, is going to make it easier for the next thing that you do. I wouldn't start with, for example, the subject that you think is the hardest to wrap your head around that takes the most amount of time, the most amount of effort, and feels the most isolated. Start with the one that feels so something like, like a common would be like cardio respiratory or cardiovascular and then respiratory. Those are topics that people tend to be a little bit stronger in because that's like very heavily emphasized. So you might want to start with something like that, or you might want to start with something like, you know, like, for example, you might want to start with the physiology behind a very specific part of the digestive process. It depends on how deep you're going. Like, you know, like in medical school, you only learn it to, like, a surface level, but then later for specialization exams, you're actually learning it to a much, much deeper level. So even like a singular specific digestive process, you can go very deep with that. So when I'm saying do it by topic, the topic is not necessarily what's given to you in a specific textbook or the way that someone else has divided the topic for you necessarily. It's talking about the group of ideas and things that feel like they're all related to each other. And it makes sense to do it all at the same time. That could be mixing some parts of physiology and pharmacokinetics and management and anatomy altogether. It could be about doing it in terms of this cluster of diseases or syndromes and doing it together. It depends on how you want to cover it. And I would need to actually see your curriculum to make a judgment about what's going to work the best for you. But I wouldn't worry too much about that. Just try to do whatever you think feels like it makes sense. Also, Justin, the way you talk about interleaving is like taking a break from what you're studying and going for a stroll and making connections about it. The way other people talk about interleaving is the desirable difficulty. They want to mix. Yeah, that's, that's, I don't think you've quite like, fully understood, like, the concept of interleaving the way that I teach it, because that's not quite exactly what I mean when I talk about interleaving. So interleaving in itself is the idea of like varying your practice and doing it in alternating mixed blocks, rather than doing like a single thing all in one go, is en massed. And the idea of good interleaving, because there's different types of interleaving, good interleaving induces some of that desirable difficulty and cognitive load through the variation and how you are testing yourself and retrieving it or encoding it. That's what interleaving is. When I talk about interleaving, I think in the specific strategy that I talked about where my webcam battery just came like, stop. So just give me 1 second because I need to, um, I need to, uh, change to my other webcam. Yep. Well, Justin's getting that fixed. I think it's fixed now, actually. Okay. I was actually going to mention that this is covered in one of his previous videos as well. I'll just drop a link in the chat so you can refer to it later. Cool. Okay. Yeah. So what was I talking about? Yeah, yeah. So the idea, yeah. So the idea behind how you do, how you should be doing interleaving correctly, is that in that particular strategy that I talked about, I talked about the idea of like going for a stroll or something. The idea there is that we are balancing our work and rest. So we're getting a bit of. A bit of a break. But while we're having that break, we're able to have some interleaving in there as well to maintain productivity and keep us in that flow state. The idea is that the interleaving that we're using is specifically one that is of low cognitive load demand. That's not the whole breadth of interleaving. The type of interleaving you do depends on what you want to be achieving in that particular study session. If it's a dedicated retrieval session to deepen your understanding of something, you don't necessarily want to just be like, going for a stroll and thinking about things mentally, that's not going to be a strategic thing. So this is kind of a topic that's a little bit deeper, and I think there's maybe, like, a bit of a misunderstanding in terms of how you understood my teaching of interleaving. But so I think I feel like I would need to go over some of the foundations of good interleaving and how you can kind of use it as part of your strategy. For you, though, as it is now, in terms of the way that you are studying, I think having the interleaving that you of just purely what we already talked about, like building that schema and then using the practice questions and then challenging that and then deepening it with the explanations, that's a good place to start with already. So I wouldn't worry too much about, you know, anything else. And when you're taking the breaks for you, because you've got long study sessions, I recommend doing that kind of low effort kind of interleaving so that you can use it to recover as well. Okay, thank you so much. Yeah, cool. No worries. We'll move on to the next person. TJ. TJ, I'm so sorry for the long wait. I will just flick up your work on here as well. I think there's two different links here. So, yeah, just tell me about what the problems that you're facing are. Yeah, so pretty much what I said is my study system kind of, and my problem is just with, like, how effective these retrieval studying methods really are. Okay. Like. And what, like, so what's the problem per se, in terms of the effectiveness? Yeah, probably just, like, the amount of information I, like, retrieve from each method. Okay, so which ones should I kind of, like, quit? Which one should I keep? Right, okay. And this is basically based on this thing that you've shared. Right. In terms of the different techniques and things that you're considering. Yeah. Okay. So I'm just sharing that to the stream now and I'm just having a look at this. Okay. So, okay, you've got the word burst studying in there. Is this something that you learned from one of my courses or is that something that you just, you said in a video? Okay, okay. Yeah. That's probably something that you can probably take out off the bat. Yeah. Because that's. It's not something that's easy to implement. And if people are wondering in the chat about, like, what it is, it's kind of like a long, long, long story to explain that. So I'm just not going to talk about that right now. But, yeah, TJ, for you, I think you can take that out. Pre study is definitely important to have in there, thinking big picture. So to be honest, like, none of these things under this list of what you intend to implement are things that you would want to take out because they are all very useful and they're not, like, they don't take more time. Like a lot of these things, you can do it simultaneously. Like when you are doing this, you can be like, for example, thinking big picture. You should be like doing that, you know, most of the time when you're studying anyway. That's just the kind of thought process that you should be going through. So that's kind of not like taking more additional time. Where is it exactly that your time is being? Wait, like, where do you feel your time is being kind of wasted on? Probably the revision process, like meeting up an exam a couple of days leading up to it, waste a lot of time. But, like, how are you revising it during that time? So usually I'll like, teach it out, do some practice exams, and then kind of like try to ask more questions to like, link the link concepts together. Right. So the problem you're probably facing here is just a matter of timing because those are good methods to have. But I wouldn't be doing all of those things just in the time before the exam. Like, for example, something like teaching, that's something that you actually ideally want to do, like at the end of each week because it's a broad way of picking up gaps and consolidating your information and interleaving the knowledge. So that's not something that I would be wanting to do, like, you know, only at the very end. So something like teaching, you can do that at, you know, at the end of every week. So at the end and even like doing practice questions and stuff. You can start doing that maybe like at the end of every month. So that means that closer to the exams you can maybe challenge yourself with a little bit more, or you can do asking yourself even more questions, really, like pushing the boundary rather than just trying to fit all your interleaved retrieval stuff. So I think the issue here is the fact that you don't have much spaced interleaved retrieval in the earlier phases of your learning, and you're trying to fit all the interleaved retrieval methods in a short, concentrated burst of time. Teaching something is something that is very effective but is inherently quite time consuming. Like, there's not really any way to make it that fast, but it's very effective. So you don't want to get rid of it. So it's just more of a timing thing. But, like trying to do all of that in just a single concentrated block, that's going to be too much. So I think it's more of a timing thing. And also, is this a system that you're, like currently already using, like a level of comfort and competence or is this kind of relatively new system that you're starting to use? I've been using it for about six ish months. Okay. So you've had some experience with it. And the things under this list of what I intend to implement are these things that you haven't started doing yet but you want to do. Yeah. Okay. So the things in terms of, like, what you intend to implement, a lot of those things, especially, like, the thinking big picture and then using more like, nonlinear note taking, that is going to fundamentally change how much you need to retrieve. So your revision sessions will start getting quicker because there's less that you're forgotten. So your, like, kind of fluency is going to increase in your revision session. So those already are going to start saving a lot of time. But I also wouldn't recommend that you do all of these things in one go because that's going to create, like, overwhelm. Like, if you can, if you. If you're adding like, ten new techniques on to an existing system, your rate of failure is going to be so high because, like, no one can do that. Like, I would never even for myself, add ten new techniques, like boom, you know, it's just going to create, you know, massive overload. I'll be picking like two max, three of these things to try to implement and I wouldn't. And I'll be doing it on like a per month basis because you want to make sure each set of new techniques you add, you are getting a reasonable level of accuracy and competency with before you add a new one. And you want enough experience to let yourself pick up on any errors. Like, for example, you could do it once and be like, yup, that works pretty well. But maybe if you were to do it, like, every day for a week, you'd realize, okay, like, 80% of the time it's good, but 20% of the time it's not good. And then you want to get to that point where it's good 95, 99% of the time, because that 20% of the time and it's not good, that could then derail it for, you know, later parts of your studying, and it could end up that single 20% that could end up wasting more time than all the time you saved and everything else combined. So you have to be, you know, pretty high level of competence with each new technique you're adding so you don't overwhelm yourself. You know, I would start with, you know, a bit of non linear note taking and the big picture thinking, and then I'm adding the pre study. That will be the three things that I start with first. Then I'll be adding on maybe, and that will take a solid month at least. And honestly, like, in the program where I'm, like, literally guiding people through it, like, step by step by step, like, with constant feedback even then, just to do that to a really high level, it takes, you know, like, over a month even with that. So I'd be pretty conservative with that. I wouldn't be trying to rush that. If you can do just that well, you will solve a lot of the other issues that you have with your learning. The other stuff will almost seem like just kind of like bonuses, you know, it's kind of like you've already finished the game. You're just trying to, like, unlock new achievements. If you're already doing just those three things to a higher level, it makes massive difference. So I'd focus on those first. Yeah, cool. And then with, like, scheduling, I find a lot of the time I schedule things and, like, I just don't have enough time to do those things. So scheduling something like time management, usually the problem with time management is not time management. Actually, I would. And this is, like, not a. I don't know, it's not a, it's not an unpopular opinion, but it's not a mainstream opinion from people that are not, like, heavily involved in, like, teaching this stuff. Don't schedule your time that much outside of just having very general blocks of time where you're going to focus on certain general tasks don't go through to be like, at this time I'm going to do this for like the next 20 minutes, and then after that I'm going to do this and blah, blah. You can do that when you're at like a fairly high level and advanced with every other aspect of, aspect of your system. But in their early stages, number one, it ends up being very inflexible, and number two, it ends up being relatively inaccurate because there are so many variables that affect how the quality and the speed at which you can accomplish a task. And all of those things are variables that you're actively changing and experimenting on. And sometimes you do it faster. Some days you do it to a higher quality. It's going to be impossible to predict it to any level of accuracy. How long you're going to spend on something and finishing a task that's actually important for you to do just because you, you ran out of the allocated time block for it, it's kind of like pointless. You still need to do it. So then you end up just going over time and it's like, well, what was the point of scheduling in the first place then? And the third thing is that the way that you schedule things is going to change dramatically based on the way that you change the actual things that you're doing on a daily basis in terms of the way that you're studying and the way that you refine your system. So there's no point kind of being too strict with your scheduling in the early stages when every day something is sort of changing a little bit. So what's more important is to just be very clear about your priorities. Okay. Today I'm going to focus on these two things. Like, if nothing else, I want to make sure I get these two things done and then I call it a win. And then these are like my stretch goals. These are like bonuses and just find like a time to do that. Okay, I'm going to try to get these two things done by 12:00 p.m.. Today. And then these two stretch goals, you know, I'll try to get them done by 07:00 p.m. Or by before dinner. So that that can be your, that can be it. So in your schedule, you just have like, okay, what? Like school time or whatever it is, you know, like basketball, whatever, like other hobbies and things that you've got throughout the day. And then in the time between, you just block out like his. For my first priority, and here's for my second priority. And then this remaining time, I can use it for my stretch goals. That's it. And on 90% of my days, that's how my schedule looks like. You can use that type of time management to do a lot, and you can be extremely productive with very little, like, time management related stuff, because at a certain point, your time management has very diminishing returns, because what's more important is that at the end of the day, you're getting what you need to do done. It's not about, like, what time you do it and spending a certain amount of time to do it and to micromanage your activities to the point where you're doing it, like, in every five minute or ten minute block. Yeah. So don't worry about the scheduling too much. Just focus on getting clear priorities and then just creating general deadlines for those clear priorities and just working on reflecting and improving your system. Okay, thanks. Cool. All right, nice. And then we'll move on to the last person, Rodrigo, who you don't have any work to submit, but you just did have a question. If you are still. If you're still here, which I hope you are still here. If you're not, then I am here. Great. Sorry for the very long wait. You've been ready, patient. There's nothing to be sorry about. Are you seeing me? Yeah. Yep. So let us know about what the issue you're facing is. My issue is, like, if I am. If I am on vacation and I am pretending to study, like, for the exam of the semester birth, you know, that will be on, like, a month from now, two months from now, when should I be revising? What? I study now. So I study now. I spend a week studying, and I learn it very well. But when should I be willing to revise today exam? That will be, like, a month from now. Okay, so if it's a month from now and we're saying that you've spent one week to study it, now we have three weeks left. Yes. Yes, I think you can. You could say that. Are there other things that you're studying for in that time? So, for example, do you spend one week. Do you have, like, three subjects, and then you spend one week? One week. One week. So now all three weeks before the exam are used by studying? Or is it you spend one week studying everything, and now you have, like, two, three weeks spare? Let's say that I have just, like, one exam, one subject, but not. But I work, for example, in the. I have a full time job. Yeah. Okay, sure. So without considering other factors, if you spent one week studying something, you would want to. One month is a bit of a weird timing because if you study it in one week, I would probably say you should revise it the one week after that, probably. But it also depends on how you're studying it. So let me give you two examples. Let's say that you study something and you are studying it in like, lecture by lecture, which means that on Monday you study lecture one to three, and then on Friday you studying lecture like 30 to 37. Well, that means that it's now been like five, six days since you studied lecture one to three. Right. So in that situation, you should probably revise lecture one to 37 on the weekend, Saturday and Sunday, immediately afterwards, however, and then you should revise it again maybe a week after that. I mean, you've only got like a month. So you'd, you'd want to do it basically. You'd want to basically do it, like every weekend between now and the. And the exam, like at this weekend, and then the weekend after that, and then the weekend after that. And then that would be the exam. So that would be what you want to do. But let's say that you're studying it differently, which would probably be more effective, is that on Monday you're studying lectures, you know, one to seven, and then you're finishing lectures 30 to 30 to 37 on Wednesday. And then on Thursday you're going to go a little bit deeper on some of the details for lectures one to ten, and on Friday you're getting a little bit deeper on some of the lectures. So if, for example, you're not studying it, like from beginning to end, but instead you're studying it in kind of these blocks that kind of rise up in level of detail and knowledge, then that will be different because now it hasn't been, let's say, six days since you studied, you know, lecture one. You may have actually been studying parts of lecture one, even on the Wednesday or the Thursday as you were, like, just building up your knowledge, that would be a more advanced method of studying. If you're using that, then you wouldn't need to necessarily revise it for a whole week after. You could do it. You could skip that weekend and you could do it the next weekend. But if you're doing it relatively linearly, then you're going to need to have a higher rate of retrieval because the gap between it is larger and it's increasing the risk of forgetting things because there's going to be more things that are isolated. The idea of revising is to figure out what is isolated and therefore you forgot it. And therefore how can you relearn it and re encode it so that you remember it, preferably in a way that makes it not isolated again if you then learn it again, but then you learn it again in the same way, and so it's just as isolated as it was the first time, then the next weekend you're going to find that you've already forgotten a lot of that again. And so then you need to do the process again. So when you're revising it, you're thinking, where are the gaps? Like, what have I forgotten and what level have I not reached? And then how can I reach that level? So if you're studying it initially in a way that makes it so that you're reaching a low level and you're forgetting a lot, then that's going to mean that when you're revising it, there's more work you need to do and you need to do it more frequently. So a lot of this changes depending on how you are studying it to begin with, which the advice would be to follow. A lot of the advice that I've just spent the last 2 hours, two and a half hours giving. So it's kind of like a complicated answer. I know, I know. You're probably looking for something that was a little bit like, just like, boom, this is what you should do. But it does actually depend a lot on how you thought about it and what level you got to in terms of mastery and retention within that one week. And then this also changes again if you've got other subjects you're studying in that time. Like if you've got two exams and now you're spending one week for one subject and one week for another subject, that changes things compared to if you're doing both subjects in one week or if you're doing both subjects but spread across two weeks, that changes things again as well. Okay, I heard. Yeah. So I feel like that answer will be, like, not as satisfying because it just feels like it's like a little complicated. Do you have any questions about that? It's just not an easy thing to give a blanket answer to because there are many things that would actually affect it in real life. It wouldn't be responsible for me to just say, like, you should do it like this because that's not going to be applicable necessarily for you or for a lot of the people watching, depending on their method of study. Yes, I got it. I know it's not a simple question neither. It's a simple answer. But yes, that was very satisfying. Okay, thank you. Great. Awesome. Thank you. And thanks everyone that was that joined in for the session. A lot of people have already kind of left there. But thanks everyone that's tuned and thanks everyone that's watched this on the YouTube Live. If you liked me doing content like this, leave a comment as well. Make sure to let me know. Give me some feedback on this so that I know that it's actually something that you enjoy. Or if you hated it, also let me know so I can never do it ever again. If there's any questions or comments about stuff that I talked about today, because there's going to be lots of stuff, then feel free to leave a comment asking about that as well. We'll go through and trawl through the comments afterwards to see if there's any particular angles that we need to take a little bit more. If we need to make more videos covering certain things in more depth, we can go and do that. Or if you're interested in engaging with this in a more step by step.