We've got Janelle and Sonia with us, who are our guests, and they're going to be sharing some of the struggles that they've had, and I'm going to go through and dissect them. I am. I haven't really looked at any of their work. I don't know what the concerns and issues really are yet. So I'll be going through it fresh. You'll be able to see how I approach it. And the key learning and takeaway for you is not just to say, here's a couple random people, and the problems that they face, but also just to learn my approach, because my approach for tackling problems and solving learning or self management related issues is usually pretty similar, even if the types of problems are quite diverse. So there's a way that you can learn to approach your own problems and sort of diagnose and be the mechanic of your own brain, like I always say. So without further ado, I will. I think, Janelle, we'll just start with you. I'm going to move you over to my screen here so everyone else can see you and. Yep. So, based on the chat, it says everything looks good. That's perfect. So, Janelle, would you mind just introducing yourself? Just letting me know where you're from, what level of education you're at, and just a brief background in terms of, like, you know, what are you studying, and what are some of the issues that you are facing? Hello, I'm Janelle. I'm a second year bio student in Canada. I guess right now, I'm very unsure what my problems are because I just changed my methods. Throughout first year, I mostly relied on anki practice problems. That's basically what I would use a lot of anki. And I thought that was, like, it worked a lot. In the beginning, I got really good midterm grades. I'd get 90%, almost 100. It'd be good. But by the end of it, I would crash and burn, and I'd do pretty bad on my finals just because I couldn't study anymore. So that's why I'm changing. And I kind of moved on to, like, mind maps and higher order thinking, but I'm struggling a lot with that. Okay, so we'll definitely jump into that a little bit more. Can you tell me a little bit more? Like, you said, that it made you kind of crash when you were just using your previous methods. When you say you sort of crash, what do you mean by that? I think I just didn't want to do it anymore. Like, I'd be so tired. I'd have to. I'd have to make all those cards, then I'd have to review them, and then, well, I'd go. I'd go through my material. I'd have to understand everything in detail. Then I would go one by one, put those into cards. Then after that, I have to review them, and then I have to do that over and over, keep reviewing, and then, plus, on top of all my other courses, I'd just given up. And, yeah, I didn't really want to study anymore. Right. So it sounds like you were just getting pretty overwhelmed. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, so the higher order stuff and the mind mapping that you've been trying, you've been saying that you struggled with that a little bit. What are the methods that you're trying to use, and then what are the parts that you're finding quite difficult? Well, since I'm pretty new to this, I haven't been. I haven't been, like, before lecture, I haven't been pre reading my notes. I probably should be doing that. But after class, I usually look for key terms, and then I can connect those together somewhat. But then afterwards, once I get into the key terms, I start thinking about all these details. I start thinking about all these details. Not really sure where to go from there. So are you sort of saying that you. You start thinking about these details, and because you're kind of getting into the details, you feel like you're losing your kind of higher order train, you're sort of just getting sucked down into memorizing all the different details like you were trying to do before? Yeah, I'd say so. Is that, like. Is that kind of the issue that you're facing, or is the issue slightly different? I'd say also just trouble creating relationships? I guess so. They're probably. Yeah, they're probably gonna go hand in hand in that you're gonna struggle with creating relationships, and that's gonna stop you from staying away from the details and. Okay, so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna. I'm gonna, I guess, talk a little bit, just about, just a general approach to make sure that we're on the same page. And so for everyone watching, we're all on the same page, and then sort of go through, in a way, like, a checklist of the things that you need to make sure that you're doing, and then we'll try to figure out which parts of that checklist you might not quite be hitting. And I've got an idea about what the likely problems are that you're facing, because it's a very kind of, like, typical type of issue that you've got. So I'm very confident that we can get onto that. But to make this a comprehensive learning experience for everyone that's watching, I'll just go through all the basics and the principles as well. So if this is something that you already familiar with because you watch all my other content, then, number one, well done. And number two, it'll be a little bit basic. So I'm just going to move you off the screen, Janelle, so I can see the. Everyone can see the white board, the green board that I've got here. Yeah. Please don't draw on it. Yeah, sorry. That's all good. Okay, so the way that this works is that there are some basic principles that we have to follow from not just higher order learning, but from, like, a system, a learning system. So I'll just go through and talk about some of those ones instead. So when we talk about a learning system, this is very different from learning as a singular technique. And this is because a system is composed of multiple techniques. And the idea is that no single technique is going to be good enough to cover all of your needs. You must have a stack of techniques which complement each other and enhance each other. And so the first big part of a learning system should be the way that you're doing your pre study, pre study or priming. And I'll go into the way that this builds on itself shortly. And then after that, we've got what I often call the main learning event. Main learning event or main learning experience. So for most people going through formal education, that's going to be a class, it's going to be a lecture. If you're not attending lectures, which a lot of people aren't, then the main learning event could just be your first dedicated, long, sit down study session. The main learning event really just means the experience that you have where you're really going through and consuming content in a really concentrated way, that's going to be your main learning event. And then after that, you've got retrieval practice. And retrieval practice is often something that has to happen multiple times, depending on how much time we've got available for it. So these are different components that we have to have. And you already mentioned that you are not always doing your pre study, and you're sort of skipping that sometimes. Yeah. So that's going to be a very, just generally disadvantageous move, because your pre study is really the thing that plugs the hole in your bucket. Right. You can always catch up on stuff if you fall behind, but if you've got so much that you're falling behind on that all of your time is spent catching up, then it's very difficult to ever really catch up, because, like, the hole in the bottom of your bucket is kind of, like, larger than the speed that you're able to refill it. The pre study is a thing that kind of closes that hole. It's the thing that reduces the amount that you're forgetting in the first place. So even though in the short term, let's say that you've got an hour on a Sunday and you're making a decision, should I spend this hour on pre study versus reviewing the stuff that I'm maybe falling behind on? You should really always choose to spend it on the pre study because, yes, you'll be falling behind on that hour's worth of material for that week or something. However, for the. For the week to come, you're gonna have less that you're falling behind on, which means that you're gonna be in a better position so you can eventually recover and catch up from that, even if you take that short term loss. So I would. You know, the first thing that I'd say, number one, is a really high priority thing is really, you should not be skipping out on pre study. It's really one of the most important things that you can try to do to reduce the overwhelm, your ability to tackle the learning during the main learning event, your ability to do the retrieval effectively, the amount of stuff you need to go through in your retrieval practice, all of these things are going to be impacted by how well your brain has been primed to receive that knowledge, which usually happens in the pre study. Okay? And that's directly a segue into some of the higher order methods and where you might be having some of those issues. Um, so let's just pull this out here. So, ultimately, with. With anything that we're doing, we're. We're. We're trying to do this higher. Higher order learning, which I talk about all the time. And if you're not aware of what that is, then please check out my other videos as well. The most, like, the. The simplest possible way that we can think about doing higher order learning is that we're giving meaning to new information by putting it into a network. The meaning and value of the information is being placed in relation to other pieces of information. And it's almost to the point where it's like, no matter how you achieve that, as long as you're able to create meaning through relating it to other, other information, you're going to achieve that. And so there's lots of ways that we can try to do that. We can try to create. And I'm going to give you a bunch of different ways that you can try to trigger higher order learning. And I want you to think about this. It's like, in what way does this relate information to other information to give it meaning? So, creating analogies. So, creating an analogy is a way that we trigger higher order learning. So if we think about that, that's because in order to create an analogy, you can't really create an analogy on, like, a single thing. An analogy is almost like a story in a way. There's multiple components, and they have to flow and relate and interact with each other in a way that actually makes sense. So there's the value judgment of that as well, to understand, does this actually make sense or not? There's a more explicit way that we can create these relationships, which is literally just to think and ask ourselves, how is this information related to what I've just learned? Or the alternative, which is how is this information related to what I already know and relating it to our prior knowledge? There's also we could ask ourselves, what is the relevance to this information in the big picture? So we can think about it from a zoomed out lens to form a big picture. But all of these different kind of mental strategies, they require you to compare the information with other pieces of information. And so something that makes this really, really hard to do, which, Janelle, you've actually already kind of mentioned, is that if you start getting down right into the details, then it becomes really, really overwhelming, because there's just too many things to try to hold onto. And an analogy that I've really been using a lot recently when I've been teaching this concept, is to think of learning like a jigsaw puzzle. So you know what I mean by jigsaw puzzle. Like, you still use that word in Canada? Yeah. Yeah. So, hopefully, everyone in the chat, you know what I mean by a jigsaw puzzle. Actually, let me. I'm actually curious because I use this analogy a lot. Can you let me know in the chat, is there anyone who comes from a country where the word jigsaw puzzle, it's like, you don't know what that means. I would. I would like to know that anyway. So this. This, uh, if you. If you're solving a jigsaw puzzle, like, how does. How do you first start you start with just a box full of, like, puzzle pieces. Right. Janelle, have you. Have you solved many puzzles before, personally? Oh, yeah. I have, like, a box of puzzles right there in front of them. Okay, perfect. So, when you solve a puzzle, how do you start? Like, what do you do? What's your process? I look at the picture. I look at the picture on the box, right? Yeah. So that's the obvious one you look at. In fact, you probably don't even buy it if you didn't even know what the picture on the box looks like for most people. So, you look at the picture on the box, and then what? You open the box, and you see all the pieces that are in the box. What do you do next? Oh, yeah, I sort them out. I, like, go with edges and then sort them by color. Exactly. And, like, sort it by the inside pieces. Now, I want you to think about the process you're using to do that you're sorting out. And you're. You're kind of, like, grouping the pieces together based on similarities that they have that you feel are meaningful. Right. So, the edge pieces you sort together because you know that the edge pieces are meaningful because they form the outer boundary. They're, like, the easiest things. Like, you don't. You don't, like, you know where it's gonna fit. Like, it's gonna be somewhere on that edge. You don't know where on that edge necessarily at first, but you know it's gonna be somewhere on the edge. So they're kind of the easiest places to start often. Right. So you know that you can group those edge pieces together, and then when you have. I'll just bring you back because I'm talking to you. And then when you have all your edge pieces clustered together, then, you know, maybe, for example, let's say that you're doing a jigsaw puzzle of, like, someone riding a bike through a city, and then you can say, okay, well, all these, like, blue pieces are probably part of the sky, so you might get all the, like, blue looking pieces together, and, like, say, okay, that might be, like, the sky, and you might have all the parts that look like the. I don't know, the house. And, you know, kind of maybe group some of those together, and then you probably have some pieces that are left over that you, like, don't really know where it fits. And so you might just, like, not group them, or you put them in, like, a miscellaneous pile of just, like, random pieces that probably go somewhere, but you don't really know exactly where it goes. Right. So that's the process that you use when you're solving a juxtaposal, right? Yes. Makes sense. Yeah. So that is the exact same process that we want to use when we're learning new information. The difference is you don't know what the big picture is going to look like. It's a jigsaw puzzle that doesn't have an image on it. And actually, there are jigsaw puzzles that you can buy that don't have the image on. Like, you got to figure it out yourself. It's like a, you know, like a really painful way to do a jigsaw puzzle, but some people really love that. So if you're doing that, your strategy is still going to be the same. If you've got a jigsaw puzzle where you don't even know what it's going to look like at the end, it's the exact same process you're going to use. You're probably still going to look for the edge pieces, and then you're still going to look at each piece to see how they might be similar to each other. And so instead of forming these groups that you're, like, a little bit more certain about, you'd form these groups of pieces that are, like, slightly more hypothetical. Sorry, not hypothetical. That are more of a hypothesis. Right. You're like, maybe these pieces are grouped together. Like, I think, like, they were all very similar colors. I think they might all be related to something, and you don't know what picture it forms yet, but you're at least trying to group them together to create some kind of meaning from them. Right. You're following along so far with this analogy. It makes sense, right? Yeah. Now, imagine trying to solve this jigsaw puzzle, but instead of, you know, doing it this way, you take one piece and you look at this piece, you try to memorize exactly what this piece looks like. And once you feel like you've completely memorized what this piece looks like, you put it down and you pick up another piece, and you memorize exactly what that piece looks like. And you understand everything about this piece. You know how many millimeters, one edge is. You know, you know exactly the color, and it goes from, like, one shade to another shade. You know, there's a gradient, and there's, like, a three millimeter, like, dot of red on the corner. Like, you know every single thing about this. And then once you've memorized it completely, you put it down and you pick up another piece. Imagine solving a jigsaw puzzle by doing that and trying to, like, form the picture somehow through having memorized each individual piece. Like, how long would it take to solve a jigsaw puzzle by doing it that way? You can imagine. Yeah, pretty long. Yeah. In fact, I would say, like, if you could even do that, like, I feel like it will be literally impossible. Like, I think I could spend my whole life trying to solve a single jigsaw puzzle that way and maybe, like, never finish it. Like, by the time I'm on my fourth or fifth piece, I've honestly just forgotten the first piece anyway. So then I would have to spend time to, like, pick up my first piece every five pieces and, like, constantly review it. And this is the reason. And this is how, you know, most people use flashcards, right? So, yeah. If those of you watching and listening right now didn't realize this has all been an analogy for learning. So this, you know, this is how most people use flashcards, is that they will just, like, focus really, really intensely on just memorizing and understanding a single piece really, really deeply. And then they will just rely on trying to form this big picture eventually, if they ever get time to do that, which often they don't get time to do that, which is why some people will sit an exam, and then during the exam, they'll be like, wow, everything actually, like, this question made me realize, and it made sense of the topic. Like, they're learning during the exam, which is not what you want to happen. So your brain wants to form that big picture image. Once it understands the big picture image, it has, it has more relevance, it has more meaning, and therefore, it's easier to remember, and it's easier to make sense of it. It's easier to use that knowledge. So the most important thing that we need to do when we're learning is sift through the pieces to try to create that big picture. Right. And because we don't know what the picture looks like initially, our big picture is going to be a hypothesis. We're going to. There's a hypothesis that we think the big picture looks a certain way, and we're going to create these groups and we're going to work with them to see if that is truly the picture that we have hypothesized. And we're probably going to be wrong. But as we're continuing to build it out, it's going to become clearer and clearer and clearer and more and more easy to do that. So, Janelle, probably what's happening here is that right now, the reason that you're struggling probably is because you have a lot of the kind of habits of like, trying to memorize each individual piece. Yeah. And then when you start, like, laying down some of the edge pieces and you pick up a piece, you kind of fall into the habit of, like, trying to memorize that piece instead of immediately just like trying to play around with it and create these groups. And so there's two things that you can do to try to train yourself out of that. Well, the first thing is being aware of it, which is it's like the zero thing. It's just being aware that you should try not to do that. But just like you would when you have a jigsaw puzzle, you've said that you've got your key terms. And when you go through the key terms, when you try to group those key terms together, I want you to think about it very consciously by asking yourself why you think grouping it. Grouping these terms a certain way makes sense or is important or relevant. Don't just group things together because you feel like they're could be grouped together. Actually, explicitly think about what type of group you think this represents and why that group is valuable or meaningful. It's just like when you're solving a jigsaw puzzle, you'd group them together because you have a hypothesis that this forms the sky or the road or the house. When you're grouping the ideas together, you want to know exactly what that group represents because remember, your hypothesis is probably going to be wrong initially. And so you want to be able to know why you're grouping it, so that when you, when you reflect on it and you adjust it, you're actually making a meaningful adjustment. It's not just kind of like, oh, this group didn't work and now you're kind of just left with all these isolated concepts again. Right. There's a clear hypothesis that you're testing with each group that you form. Always come back to your existing set of groups and see if the picture is getting clearer. If the picture is not getting clearer, change your groups around. That's the second thing. Just like with the jigsaw puzzle, as you continue to solve it, it should be getting easier because the picture is forming. Right? Like the first, the hardest, like the easiest part is forming the edge, and then the hardest part is actually forming, like the next layer that comes in from the edge. But once you've got that, it gets easier and easier because there's less pieces that you need to work through and there's more of a big picture that's forming. So it's more about just, like, filling in the gaps. The easiest part about the higher order learning process is forming your first initial groups. The hard part is refining those groups to see what actually forms the clearer picture. So you do this. Let me get my green board out again. This is what you do. You, number one, you form groups. And as we said, these groups, they have to be very, very explicit. Really, like, challenge your reasoning. Don't just make these groups and say, oh, they feel like they all kind of related together, or like they're under the same chapter heading, or like, oh, my lecturer spoke them within the same minute of each other. Like, these are not good reasons. Like, you have to have a group that even if you were to just give it to some random other person, they would look at these same groups and think, yes, that's a very logical way of grouping it together. So make really, really explicit groups. And then, number two, continue to refine each group by comparing to the big picture. And this, this is kind of like a cyclical process that occurs. So every time you form a group, you then look at the other groups you formed, and then you try to bring it together. And then you ask yourself, okay, now, instead of one group, I've got two groups. Do these two groups actually make sense with each other? Like, does it actually form, like, a more cohesive story for this topic? If the answer is no, maybe we try one more group, see if we can build out that story a little bit more. So we create another group, and once we've grouped that, and then we put it together and try to create a flow to see how they interact with each other, we ask ourselves again, like, did this make it clearer? Is the big picture of this topic becoming clearer to me, if the answer is still no, after, like, three groups, probably the way that you've grouped, it needs to be changed. So what you do is you just break the groups. You bring them out into the original terms again. You look for an alternative way to group the information. And this process of just going back and forth, grouping and ungrouping and checking and making sure that it makes sense, and just asking yourself this question of, like, does it make sense? Can I group this? Group it this way? This takes time. This takes effort. And, in fact, it takes, like, literal resources. You need to go into your learning materials. You need to read your textbook. You need to Google things to figure out whether this group makes sense or not. And all of that is going to be effective for learning. By the time you do this process again and again, you'll have, like, your major groups form for the overall topic, and then you're going to group them again. You're going to form subgroups within those big groups you're going to form. And so it's exactly the same process, but you're just having smaller and smaller groups until you get to the point where there's nothing to group anymore. They're just individual concepts. But by doing that, you're actually building on a web. So if you're, if you're using like a mind map kind of technique, it should, it should look something like this. I'll just move this over here so we can still see that. Hopefully you can all see that still. Yeah. So at first you'd have just like a list of kind of concepts that, that are there. And then you take these concepts, and then you try to think, okay, can I group it into this one? And then can I group maybe this one and these together into another group? And then maybe I can group this one and this one and this one into another group. And then, so you'd have these three groups together, and you'd think, how could these groups relate to each other potentially? And you might say, okay, well, there's maybe this kind of thing that works. And you might say, actually, that doesn't make sense. So you'd get rid of that, and then you go back to the list and you'd form a different type of group. So maybe you'd group it, you know, this way instead. So, and then you do that until you get to a point where you're actually pretty comfortable with the fact that you've got these kind of main groups and you understand the relationship that these groups have with each other. And then once you're at that point, you then will be branching it out. And then when you branch it out, you're going to ask the same question, does this relationship make sense? Does this continue to make sense? And so as you continue it to expand out, over time, this gets increasingly larger and more complex. And then once you've fleshed it out more fully, you can go through to see if you can simplify it even more. At no point during this process are you ever reading or consuming information for any other reason than to see whether the groups and flow that you've created makes sense. That's key here. As soon as you start consuming information just for the sake of consuming information or of as soon as you start covering material just because it's there, that's when you start losing, because that's now falling into a lower order habit. The intention. The reason, the purpose for consuming the information needs to be to solve the puzzle, to form the picture. And that framing means that you can read the same sentence, the exact same paragraph, the same list of bullet points, but it has more meaning to you because it forms part of a bigger picture. If you really, really, really struggle with holding yourself accountable to thinking in this way, actually set yourself a timer, maybe every five minutes or ten minutes, set a timer that just goes off. And every time the timer goes off, you stop, you pause, and you ask yourself, am I consuming and reading and learning for the sake of figuring out the big picture, or am I just reading it because I got sucked into a paragraph and I'm just trying to understand it? Am I trying to understand so that I can clarify my groups and my relationships and create a flow that I feel like makes sense? Or am I just reading to understand the understanding? Like, understanding and good memory are a side effect and a symptom of creating a good organizational structure. It's not the primary outcome. We don't aim to get memory and understanding. Memory and understanding are formed as part of forming a good organizational structure. I think that's really crucial to understand because it's counterintuitive. It's counterintuitive that when you try to deliberately create better memory and understanding by trying to remember and understand, it's actually less efficient than trying to create structure and meaning at a big picture level, where the memorization, understanding come as part of that. And then after you've done that, then you'd go through and see what you've forgotten, and then that stuff you can chuck into your flashcards and your ankle, but you'd have only 20% of what you'd normally have because you've already remembered and understood the rest. So that's kind of just like a. Like an end to end sort of flow there that I've kind of rambled on about so far. Janelle, did you have any, like, based on what I've just said right now, and you kind of reflect on your own learning methods, which. Yeah. Like, which part of what I said to you feels maybe, like, different to what you might already be doing? Well, like, really stands out as, like, okay, that's something that I'm kind of catching myself on. Um, I think one thing that stood out to me probably was that your hypothesis can be wrong, because when I put it onto Anki, it's like, I have this information. It's like, chuck it onto the card, and that's the information. Like, the idea that I can be wrong, but I can go back and change it and keep rearranging. It's pretty foreign to me, I'd say. Yeah. And I think that's, um. So it's a really interesting concept because, like, there's a level of uncertainty, right? Like, when, when, when you're, like, not sure how everything fits together, it creates this confusion and uncertainty, and it can even cause, like, insecurity. But that state of mind where you're really, like, confused is actually really good for learning because it puts your brain in this kind of problem solving mode. And therefore, like, that, like, confusion is a sign that your brain is trying to figure something out which is exactly what you want. Like, imagine doing a jigsaw puzzle where, like, there is no confusion whatsoever. You just literally pick up all the pieces and you just, like, it's just like a procedure. Like, you're just filling it like some kind of robot. You know, that number one would be insane. But also number two, it's like, there's obviously no mental engagement going on there. So if you're feeling confused and you're feeling uncertain and you're not sure how it all fits together, and that's the feeling that you have while you study, that's actually a good thing. That's a sign that you're really trying to think in the right way. Don't avoid that. Like, if you, if you try to avoid that by just focusing on understanding all the individual details, that's when you fall into the trap, because you haven't actually crystallized it, you haven't actually solved it. All you've done is you've just left the puzzle on the table and you've gone to do something else. Right. It's still unsolved. And, you know, if in an exam, that's how you're being tested, you're going to wish you had spent the time to solve that in advance. Are there any other aspects that I've kind of talked about that you have some questions or uncertainties on or you need some clarification around? I guess. Also, I don't know if I have a question right now, but the idea of you saying uncertainty is okay because I'm also very used to, because what they say in school is, oh, you have to under, you always have to understand the material before you put it into the problem set. So that's, that's, once I started going into the mind map, I'd be so, I'd be so lost. I'm like, where is this going? Yeah. Like, it seems like I don't really have, like, a goal. Yeah. So clarity is your goal. What I'm saying is uncertainty is a good part of the process. You don't want to stay uncertain forever, but the uncertainty is the necessary part to get to certainty that's actually meaningful, because the worst case scenario is that you get to certainty, but the certainty is based on an illusion of knowledge. You don't actually know it. You just think you know it. And so what they say in school is often like, yeah, you need to understand things. Okay, first of all, teachers are not trained on learning science. So actually what they say in school is not reflective of, like, up to date, you know, like, methods and knowledge. And I'm not, like, bagging on teachers. It's just not part of their training. It's not really primarily their job. But the other thing is that it's not, it's not that it's wrong. You do have to understand it. But what we're talking about right now is the process that you use to get to the understanding. Right. It's like saying, okay, you need to build a house. You can build a house in many different ways. You can choose to build an entire house with a single screwdriver. And if you do that, your hands are going to bleed and you're going to be building that house for, like, 20 years, and it's going to be amazing if you can actually build a house with a single screwdriver. There is a more effective way of building the house. You use different tools at different times and through a different process. Again, the understanding is the symptom of the process. So, yes, you have to get to understanding, but the more efficient and more robust way of getting to the understanding happens to use a process that at first has a lot of uncertainty as part of it. Right. In a way, you can kind of think about it like this. It's like the uncertainty means that you are aware of what you do not know, and as soon as. And you're opening yourself up to all the things you don't know, so it's really clear. And then you are systematically addressing the things that you don't know. And that's the process through which you're arriving at certainty and understanding. But we're starting from being like, okay, let's get everything we don't know on the table first. Like, let's be clear about what our uncertainty is, and then start working through the uncertainty to find the meaning in that. Whereas if you start from a position where you're not aware of, where your uncertainties are. And then you're trying to go through and gain certainty. You're sort of. You're sort of, like, tricking yourself, and then you're avoiding finding those gaps. And then what happens is that those gaps get revealed to you eventually anyway. And actually, that's a lot worse because it causes. That can cause a lot of anxiety and a lot of problems because then you'll be studying, but your internal sense of, like, how good your learning is going is not accurate anymore. So if you do worse than an exam, you don't know why and you don't know how to fix it because you don't know where it went wrong. Because when you were studying, it actually felt good. Make sense? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But good question. Good question. For the sake of time, we're gonna move on to Sonia. But, Janelle, please keep thinking of questions and things, and then hopefully, towards the end of this, I will just come back and see if there's any other questions for you. But, yeah, thanks for sharing that. Sonia, I'm gonna bring you onto the. It's gonna spotlight you on here. Spotlight? Yeah. Sonia, could you please just introduce yourself? Just, you know, where are you from? What educational stage are you, what type of stuff are you learning? And what are some of the struggles that you have been facing? Yeah. My name is Sonia. I'm from India, and India has many states, so I am from Haryana, so I have done my bachelor in education, and I have done masters in psychology, and I have done a diploma in guidance and counseling also. So I am preparing for NAT. It is an exam in India for assistant professors so that we can teach in colleges or universities. The problem I'm facing is that I am not being able to be consistent throughout my studies, and I am not revising the stuff. I am only further and further study. Yeah. So there's a couple things that you mentioned there. Number one was that you don't have the consistency. And then the second thing was that you aren't revising, you're just kind of studying further. So, that second point, do you mean that you don't have time to, like, review what you've already learned and you're just spending all of your time just, like, learning more and more and more things? Is that what you meant by that? Yeah. Okay. And why is. So. Actually, why is it for both. So, what's the reason you're not consistent when you say you're. What do you. What do you mean when you say you're not consistent? See, as I am a mother of two, so I'm not able to be consistent throughout my studies. Is that just because of lack of time, too many responsibilities, too many things you're trying to juggle? Yes. Yes. Okay. You have too many responsibilities. So when you say you're not consistent, what does that look like? It means what you study on one day and then you're not able to study on another day. Or is it that you plan to study on one day but then something happens and then you can't? And then, you know, you plan to study on another day and sometimes you can. So what does, what does it mean? I want to really be able to visualize what it means for you to be inconsistent. Yeah. See, I make my schedules for daily and one day I'm consistent. I am doing whatever I have planned for me and next day something comes up to me and so I'm not able to do next schedules that I have scheduled for me. Okay, so there's two, there's a couple different ways that we can try to try to tackle this. So what's really important here for me as a coach is to really understand where the root causes. And it's not to say that there's always one root cause. There's usually multiple reasons that things happen, but we need to really understand the root cause. Otherwise the advice I give you is not going to be very effective. So I'm thinking about it from two different angles right now. Is it a time and task management problem or is it a kind of learning aspect problem? And it could be both, right? So it could be time and task management. And that there are some methods and techniques that you could use that make your schedules more flexible and more adaptable, that make it so that when things arise, you're able to roll with it and you're able to adapt and overcome a little bit more easily. So that could be one possible angle. The other possible angle is that your method of learning could be too, either time consuming or too big, too cumbersome. Like you need to sit down at your desk and have perfect silence, and you need to have all of your books out in front of you and you need at least 2 hours. There could be too many requirements for you to have effective learning. That makes it so that, man, your time management would have to be amazing to be able to study and fulfill all those requirements. And that's what I'm trying to work out right now. Based on that, do you have an idea about which one where you think the issue is? Or maybe it's a bit of both. Maybe there's some time management methods you could use that make you more adaptable, and then maybe there's some ways that your learning could be a little bit more flexible as well. Or is it just more one than the other? What do you think? No, both. I have time management also. I see sometimes I'm studying for four to 5 hours continuously. I study and sometimes I don't get time to study for one to 2 hours also. Okay, so if you. Let's say that. Let's say that you had only. Let's say that you had 30 minutes, you got 30 minutes available. Would you be, do you, would you feel that you can use that 30 minutes of time to study effectively? I can use that. You can use that, yeah. So let's say that you've got a, you know, you've got a busy day, you've got lots of things going on, but between each thing, each event, you have an hour available, right? So, but just before lunch you've got an hour, and then, you know, at 03:00 you've got another hour. And then at, you know, 08:00 p.m. You've got another hour. So throughout the day you've got 3 hours. Do you feel that if you had those slots of time and if there, if there are no distractions that stop you from using that time, do you feel that the method that you used to learn would allow you to get some good learning done within those little 1 hour blocks? Yes, I can do that. Okay. So therefore, I think the problem is probably to do with the time management side, right? Because if you're able to study effectively in those 1 hour blocks, then your learning method is probably going to be, you know, not going to be the thing that's limiting you yet. So when we think about the way that we're managing time and tasks, it's important that we're thinking about the two differently. I'll start with the time management side of things. So time management is really fundamentally, it's just about how you schedule and then how you adjust to your schedule. It's really, that's all it is. When you create a daily schedule, what's your approach to doing that? I want you to, like, walk me through exactly what you would do as soon as you start your scheduling process. Like, do you have a calendar? Do you have an app? What do you fill in first? How do you decide how your day is going to look like? No, actually, I am not making any schedule in return. I am just thinking whenever I get time, I have to study in morning I study after nine and to 01:00. P.M., okay, I'm going to write this down. So I'm going to bring this screen over here. I'm just adjusting my screen share here. Okay, that'll do. Okay, so, so just go walk through that again for me, please. So you're not, you're not making. No, no. In return I'm not making, but I, whenever I get time, I study. See, up to eight my children have gone to school. After that I do one for one I do my household chores and after nine I start studying. And up to one I do it. I want to do it regularly, but I am not consistent with that. Sometime I skip these. Okay, and what's the reason that you would skip it? See, manly, many times I have other task also household chores or something. I have to go to market and so that's why I'm facing problem. Okay. And these other tasks, are they predictable or not? Predictable? Are predictable? They are. Sometimes not, sometimes not, but sometimes are. Yeah. So how, let's just say as a general percentage how many of your tasks that, of these tasks that just come up that, you know are predictable versus not predictable? Like 50 50 or maybe like more unpredictable or more predictable? 50 50. They are 50 50, yeah. Okay. Okay. So, okay, so straight off the bat, there's like two or three things that I think that you can do that will help you, but I want to get a little bit more information first. How's your focus and your attention and your energy and your ability to kind of do work and study and things throughout the day? Generally pretty good. Most of the day. Or do you, are there certain times of the day or certain periods or certain things that really tire you out and after that you just can't study? See, I'm very much focused for nine to one. From nine to one. After that? Yeah. After that my children come from school and so after that I can't study. Right. And then I. Are you basically done like from aft, after your children come home, you're just done for the whole day? Or do you get like a little pocket somewhere during that time where you're okay again? No, at night I get after nine I get time. Okay. And then after nine you get time. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Now, sometimes, okay, not always, but sometimes, is it possible during the day also for you to be able to focus and not like, you know, maybe, maybe your kids are playing or doing something or doing homework or whatever that they might be doing where you can have kind of like a focused time? Maybe they've got a focus time. Maybe everyone's doing a focus time, but is there some way that you can actually have some time during the day that's like protected and focused? And your kids also know, like, you know, I shouldn't be, shouldn't be, you know, bothering her. Yeah. Whenever I study in front of my children, they know that they do not have to bother me. Okay, so, so in that case, when you say that your children come home at 01:00 p.m. And then you're not able to focus, is that because it's not that your children are bothering you, but because you're just thinking about your children being there, that makes you like, what's the reason that it's hard to focus when your children are home? Yeah. Yeah. Because I think that I have to give time to them also. Sure. Right. I mean, which is true. You do, but. Okay, so there's a, you know, there's a bit of a balance here. Okay, cool. I think that's enough to work with. Okay. The first thing that I'm gonna say is that actually, I think the. I think the main problem here is probably just your time allocation being a little bit sporadic. Consistency is, number one, very important, but it's very hard to get consistency if you don't have a good understanding of your current baseline. And it's very hard to get a good understanding of your current baseline if you don't have, like, a consistent system to go with. So there's an interesting thing is that off the bat, I would say that you should have a written schedule. You should have actual times. You should have an actual diary of times of the day where you're blocking out to do certain tasks. This is not to say you need to use a schedule every single day for the rest of your life, but it does give you better clarity in terms of how you are actually spending your time and what you could do to try to reallocate that time. So, for example, you might say that, okay, well, between seven to 08:00 a.m. You're going to do something and you think it's going to take you that hour. But. And so you would say, okay, well, I think it will take me 1 hour. So you'd put it into your schedule to take 1 hour. Now, one of two things is going to happen. One, it's going to take you an hour. Or number two, it's not going to take you an hour. It'll either be shorter, it will be longer. And that's valuable information because that gives you a better understanding of how long your real time spend actually is. So what we're talking about here is called time tracking, and that makes it much easier to plan. The other thing is that you can notice variations in how long certain things take. And this is really the case for studying. So let's say between 09:00 a.m. To 01:00 p.m. You know that that's a great focus time for you to be able to do things. And you can't necessarily do all of your housework and things when the children are home. Maybe so you might say, okay, well, between 10:00 a.m. To 01:00 p.m. I'm going to study. And between 09:00 a.m. To 10:00 a.m. I'm going to do some focused, like housework. And you'd say, okay, if I think about all the housework that I need to get done, an hour, maybe I can. If I'm, if I'm focused, maybe I can do everything in 1 hour, you might say that you can. You can do that. So you'd spend 1 hour, and then after an hour you'd say, okay, have I been able to do this? Maybe Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday you can. Thursday, Friday you can't. So now this is data for you, and you ask yourself, well, why? Why is it that Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, I was able to do all of my housework, but then Thursday, Friday I can't? Why did I go overtime? Or maybe every, you know, maybe that, you know, it could be that at a certain time of the day, a certain day of the week is always like a little bit slower. Maybe it's because of other conditions. Maybe whenever it's raining, there's more traffic. So it takes longer to get to the shop, and therefore it takes longer to do some of your household chores. So it's about understanding all the different factors that affect your ability to get into this flow and then shifting your time blocks around to try to make it work as best as possible. So just without knowing a lot about you and your family and all the chores and the household things that you need to do, there's a few things that I would suggest at least you should try, and it's going to be up to you to see whether it actually works or not. I'm not going to presume that I know enough to actually just say you should do this, but I think you should try some of these things. The first thing that I think that you should try is actually making a very conscious decision about which household chores that are predictable. Okay, you can do with your children. Okay. Either getting your children involved or just doing them or just getting your kids to do them for you or just, just doing them when they're, when they're home again. Right. So that's the first thing I would, I would try. If you already know that you want to spend, you know, time with your children when they're home and you know that it's going to be difficult for you to focus, then make use of that time you've got 09:00 a.m. To 01:00 p.m. It's a, it's a good focus block of time, right. And there's going to be some things that you aren't able to do when your children are home, and then you can try to do those. But I'm sure that there are things that you are doing between 09:00 a.m. To 01:00 p.m. That you could probably do when your kids are home as well. And it wouldn't make that much of a difference. And we just try to move as much of that as we can. The second thing is thinking about what are the things that take you more concentration, more energy, more attention, where you really need to be at your peak. And I would be moving those. So if we say peak concentration and I'd be moving these peak concentration things probably into this morning area. So even in your studying, there might be certain methods of studying that you think require a little bit more concentration. Whereas there are some things like, for example, you could maybe spend your nine. You could, you could block out. 09:00 p.m. To 930 is you to just relax, have some tea, just, you know, just chill out for a little bit. And then 930 to 10:00 p.m. Is dedicated time for you to just review through some of the material that you've studied. Maybe do, maybe just get a blank piece of paper and just do a mind map from memory. And there are lots of things that you can do in a short period of time that can prep you for more effective targeted learning when you've got more time and you're able to concentrate. So here's a, here's a common flow that I've used myself and it could be useful. 930 to 10:00 p.m. 30 minutes. You think of everything that you've learned during that week and then you just dump it, just brain dump from memory. You map out as much as you possibly can and anything that you feel not confident on or you're not sure about or you're forgetting, you just have a separate piece of paper and you just write it down. You don't have to go and study it, you don't have to go and learn it, but you just note down what it is that you that's weak, that's weaker, and you go to sleep and the next morning you've got a piece of paper that has all of your weaknesses on it. And now you know exactly where to start. You can start your first study session by just going through that list because that's targeted, that's focused on what you know is a weakness for you. And you could spend the first 30 minutes of studying, just covering some of those weaknesses. Right. And that just means that you get into a pattern and a habit of reviewing. The third thing that I think which builds on this is if, because one of the things that you mentioned at the beginning is that you don't have any time to review because you're just spending all of your time just learning this new material. Normally, when it comes to learning, the knowledge tends to build. You have a topic and then that topic will kind of like, the knowledge within that topic will just sort of build. Right. So even when you're just learning new things, there is a way to try to review that while you are still learning the new things. And so what I think is maybe the method that you're using for learning isn't allowing you to actually build on the knowledge. It might be quite kind of like isolated. What I would recommend is try to probably in that focused period of time, in this kind of morning block, try to like, try to, try to study, even if it's more shallow and superficial, try to study ahead. So don't just follow the course or the program or something at the same pace. Just try to study like not as deep and not as detailed, but just like bigger, broader, so that you're kind of working ahead of the content because you want to be building your knowledge in layers like this rather than in columns like this. You don't want to learn deep and detailed step by step by step. You want to be learning very shallow and wide and then building a little bit more detail on that and then building a little bit more detail on that and building a little bit more detail. And when you learn this way, it's going to be easier. Even if you don't have dedicated time to review what you've already learned, you'll naturally review it anyway because each layer is relying on you having the knowledge from the previous underlying layer. So as you get more detailed, you're testing yourself on your understanding of the basic concepts. This is kind of one sort of thing that you could do. So the third thing here is to layer your learning, but it does mean that you often need to it does mean that you often need to learn slightly different to how it's being taught to you, which can be unsettling for some people. But I would really recommend that you experiment with this and try to give it a go. There's one more thing that I think would probably help you, which is number four, is to schedule unpredictability. Okay. So this is kind of like a. It's quite a foreign concept for a lot of people. Think about like this, unexpected things will always happen, but you're not going to know what it is because they are unexpected. So. But you know it's going to happen. You don't know what it is, but you know it's going to happen. So you should actually schedule for that. Have time in your schedule that's dedicated as just in case time. Just in case something happens. You've got this time that you can deal with it and now it's planned for and you can plan around it. Now, in the best case scenario, nothing happens. Now you've got extra time and you can use that extra time for more study or whatever you want to do. Right. To catch up, to review material. That's free time for you. That's time that you've created. You can use it however you want, but in the worst case scenario, something does come up. And what you're saying is that 50% of the time there's something not unpredictable that's happening. Now you've got a dedicated time that you can use to try to deal with it or deal with it as much as possible. And maybe that amount of time is not enough, but at least it's better than not having anticipated at all. It's just going to reduce the impact that it has. So your consistency may not be 100% every single day. When an unpredictable thing happens, though, it means that it's not going to just, it's not going to go to zero, it's going to at least be 50%, 60%. You can maintain at least some baseline level of consistency because you're scheduling in a buffer, you're scheduling in a cushion in case things go wrong. Okay. There's already quite a few things there, but obviously it starts with actually having a written schedule. I would really strongly recommend having a schedule that, you know, is, like, you're committing to paper with actual dates. If you. I personally use, like, Google calendar because it's just easy to. Easy use. You can use paper. You can use an app, whatever you're comfortable with, but actually have it track the amount of time that you're taking, get a realistic understanding of how you're spending your time and how long certain things take you. And once you're able to really understand how long certain things take you, you can then start scheduling things in advance, anticipating how long things will take, and then allocating your time a little bit more strategically by using these four little tips that I've given you, again, for you to experiment with. Okay. Based on what I've told you here, are there any particular parts that stick out to you, you know, that you're not certain about? No. Pretty straightforward. Okay. Give that a go. What I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna say, okay, Janelle, if you're still there, if you thought of any other questions during that time, if you guys have any questions at all, then we'll. We'll open up to that. I don't know. I want to just try to do. Yeah, any. Any. Any other kind of miscellaneous questions? Uh, yeah, I had a. Another question just, like, about the mind maps. Oh. Sometimes I do get, like. I get, like, a decent mind map. Like, I get a decent skeleton, but I have a. I actually have, like, a lot of just incomplete mind maps. I mentioned that, like, in the form. Like, I have a bunch of mind maps, and they're kind of scattered in my iPad. But right now, I'm just wondering, like, how the revision process goes for, like, the mind map. Like, you do the mind map, and then the next day, like, how that works, filling in all those blanks. Yeah, it kind of depends. So, are your mind maps that are incomplete on, like, single lectures, or are they on, like, entire topics? Um. Like, I have this one mind map of the, um. Right now, I have this one mind map. It's an entire topic. It's just about the, um. It's just about the cell and all the different components. How. How incomplete are we talking? Like, let's. You know, what percentage complete is it. Probably, like, if I look at this slides, maybe, like, 30% is left over, 30% leftover. Okay. So, actually not. Yeah. Okay. So, if that's the case, I think probably, as a general principle, if you've got mind maps that are incomplete, it's actually worthwhile just using your revision session to just complete them. Yeah. And clean them up. So the reason is because when it's not, it's not about whether you complete the mind map or not. It's about the type of thinking that doing the mind map and doing it correctly, not just like doing a mind map, but like the thinking process that is involved in it, it's about the type of learning that that helps to facilitate. So for a lot of people that are just starting into that higher order learning space, the mind map is their vehicle to trigger that higher order learning and the thinking process that's involved in creating that mind. Math is what allows that higher order knowledge to be formed. So you don't really want to avoid that. Even if you're doing it late or whatever it is, you want to have that happening at some point during your learning. If you weren't able to get onto it earlier, that knowledge is probably not there anyway, and you need to have that knowledge formed so it still makes sense to do it as part of your revision session. This changes if you have other methods that you're using to pad up your higher order learning, though. So if my maps are just one thing, but actually, you've got a lot of higher order learning happening through another method that you're using as well, then that changes things a little bit. But based on what you've said, I think the mind map is kind of the primary vehicle for you to engage in higher order learning, right? Yeah. Yeah. So in that case, you're probably going to have higher order learning gaps by not having completed it. So whether you do that in the pre study or whether you do that in your main learning event, or whether you do that in your, you know, in your retrieval, kind of like, doesn't really make much of a difference. You just got to do it at some point anyway. You may as well just do it as part of your. As part of your revision. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Good. Did that answer your question? Uh, yeah. Yeah, it did. Okay. Any other questions, Sonia, any questions from you as well? Yeah, it is not about my struggles, but I want to ask you that, how I can help my kids or some other children so that they can learn. They can study. Yeah. So my advice for any parent, and I actually had a. She had a podcast recently. Not my podcast. I was invited as a guest on to a podcast. I think it's coming out in a. Maybe a couple months. So I'd really recommend watching that podcast. I'll post it on all my social media and whatever when it is released. But the most important thing is to understand that the achievements of your child when they're young don't really matter. What's important is the mindset and the attributes and the person that that is building for the challenges that they will face later in life. And one of the things that I see a lot is that what's overemphasized is the actual outcome and achievement in these early, you know, years. Like, did you say your kids are eight years old? My daughter is eleven, and my son. Is 711 and seven. Yeah, so definitely seven. Yeah, pretty, pretty young. Eleven also, you know, still very young. So the worst thing that we can do is really emphasize, like, achievement, like getting the certain, you know, particular outcome. Because when you're young, you don't actually have enough nuance to understand what it means for an outcome to be achieved or for it to be difficult or for the process involved in it. Like all the things that we are talking about right now, this is too advanced for a young child to really understand. What they understand is outcome and acceptance. So if a child starts thinking, my parent only is proud of me, accepts me, only cares about when I do, well, then what that creates is a sense of identity that is essentially based on achieving a certain outcome. And again, because they're too young to really, like, understand the nuance, what that means is that it doesn't create a child that's driven to succeed. It does the opposite. It creates a child that is terrified of failing, which means that they will. They avoid mistakes, they avoid experimentation, they avoid growth because that means that they may make a mistake. They avoid challenges because if it's challenging, they might fail. And if they fail, they will not be loved, they will not be accepted. They're not a worthwhile human being. And then they feel. They feel that their entire self worth is based on being a high achiever, achieving a certain outcome, and that is completely limiting for growth and for life. That method of thinking is not compatible with a healthy, healthy, and thriving and successful life. Right. Because that mistake and failure is paramount. So what is the way that you could help other people, your children, other children, be successful academically is actually to stop focusing on the. Helping them with the studying. What we need to help them with is the stuff that I was talking about before with Janelle is help them see learning as a process of problem solving and making mistakes. Help them see the value in the mistakes that they're making. See the value in thinking about a process and understanding why things happen and how we can control why things happen. Create a sense of identity that takes pride and ownership and being a person that figures things out and isn't afraid to make mistakes when everyone else is, and then that child will grow into an adult that can just tackle anything, right. That would be. That's my biggest, biggest thing. That's the message that I tell parents all the time, and it's a message that I'll always continue to tell parents forever. Yeah, that's a good question, and I think that's probably all the time that we've got for this session. Sonia and Janelle, thank you very much for coming on and participating in this. It was like, super last minute, literally, like, hours before we went live. We're just like, yo, can you. Can you come on? So, thank you for being willing to do that. It's very brave and it's very generous to be on a live stream, you know, on a channel and talk about some of the difficulties and your struggles. I know that most people would not be, you know, brave enough and be willing to do that. So everyone in the chat, please, you know, say thank you. Leave your appreciation for Sonia and Janelle. We'll wrap that up there. Thanks, everyone, for watching. I hope this has been informative for you. Please. Again, it's not about Sonia and Janelle's problems for you, obviously. Think about the way that I'm dissecting things. There's a few things here. I'm always thinking about the root cause. I'm always trying to get to the bottom of why certain problems exist. You can never fix anything if you don't know exactly why it's happening. So I'm trying my hardest to characterize it and get all that information out, and you have that information in your own reflection, so just get into that habit of reflecting and trying to diagnose your own problems and experimenting with solutions. Thank you all for tuning in, and we'll end it there if I can figure out how to end this stream, which seems to be this. So thanks, everyone. See you later. And I think.